OR OUR INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION WOULD YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL MISS KENNEDY AND
WRITE TAKING YOUR OWN COUNCIL
MEMBERS ON HERE COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON HERE, COMMISSIONER
OFMAN HERE.
COMMISSIONER BILLUPS PRESENT.
COMMISSIONER MILGROM HERE.
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS
COMMISSIONER MORANBONG HERE.
COMMISSIONER GREEN PRESENT
COMMISSIONER HAYNES PRESENT
COMMISSIONER ALCUIN HERE.
COMMISSIONER FRANCES, YOU'RE IN
CHAIR HERE.
WE HAVE THERE.
>> THANK YOU.
I WOULD LIKE TO NOW CALL FOR AN
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA THAT
EVERYONE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
LOOK OVER.
>> BUT IF SO, CAN I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE SOME IS THERE
A SECOND SECOND IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION, ANY AMENDMENTS IF
NOT ALL IN FAVOR OF APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA?
PLEASE SIGNIFY ANY OPPOSE THE
MOTION IS APPROVED AND
HOPEFULLY YOU'VE HAD A CHANCE
TO LOOK AT THE MINUTES FROM THE
MEETING OF OCTOBER TWENTY
TWENTY THREE.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES SO MOVE.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND ANY
CHANGES ADDITIONS CORRECTIONS
TO THE MINUTES IF NOT ALL IN
FAVOR OF APPROVAL OF THE
MINUTES OF OCTOBER'S MEETING
PLEASE SIGNIFY BY SAYING YES OR
I I OR ANY OPPOSE.
THANK YOU.
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED.
WE ARE NOW INTO PUBLIC COMMENT.
DO WE HAVE ANY ONE ON THE PHONE
MISS KENNEDY AT THIS TIME WE
HAVE NO ONE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE HERE WHO LIKES
TO MAKE A PUBLIC COMMENT?
NO THANK YOU REPORT FROM THE
CHAIR SO I HAVE A FEW THINGS
I'M GOING TO RUN THROUGH THEM
MORE QUICKLY THAN I HAD PLANNED
BUT THAT'S OK.
FIRST OF ALL, FOUR OF US
ATTENDED THE NACOLE CONFERENCE
IN CHICAGO A COUPLE OF WEEKS
AGO AND I THINK IT WAS A VERY
GOOD EXPERIENCE FOR US.
I KNOW THAT COMMISSIONERS
MILGROM AND COMMISSIONER
PIPKINS IS NOT HERE AND
COMMISSIONER A LOT ALIKHAN IS
ALSO HERE WOULD YOU LIKE TO
TALK AT ALL ABOUT YOUR
EXPERIENCES AT NACOLE AND WHAT
YOU GOT OUT OF IT?
I'M SURE I'LL TAKE A MINUTE.
OK, GIVEN THAT THIS WAS MY
FIRST CONFERENCE AND I'M A NEW
COMMISSIONER THERE WAS A LOT
OF INFORMATION THAT WAS VERY,
VERY NEW TO ME.
THE THE SESSIONS WERE
INTERESTING.
>> I LEARNED A LOT ABOUT THE
THE WAY OVERSIGHT COMMISSIONS
OPERATE DIFFERENTLY IN
DIFFERENT COMMUNITIES.
I WAS ESPECIALLY INTERESTED IN
HEARING FROM THE SESSIONS THAT
INCLUDED POLICE OFFICERS.
THERE WER SEVERAL THAT HAD A
POLICE CHIEF WAS THERE IN
ADDITION TO THE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION MEMBERS.
IT WAS ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
STRUCK ME WAS THE CHALLENGES
THAT MANY CITIES IN THE
MUNICIPALITIES ARE STRUGGLING
WITH AROUND TRUSTING EACH OTHER
AND WORKING TOWARDS
PARTNERSHIPS IN ORDER TO BE
ABLE TO WORK WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENTS AND WITHIN THE CITY
.
SO THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT I
LEARNED.
I ALSO LEARNED A LOT ABOUT
INDIVIDUAL TESTIMONIES
OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE LOST LOVED
ONES DUE TO POLICE ACTIONS AND
AND IT WAS HARD TO HEAR BUT IT
WAS ALSO IMPORTANT TO HEAR THAT
THEY ALSO WANT TO CHANGE THE
SYSTEM TO BETTER THE SYSTEM SO
THAT THE SYSTEM CAN WORK FOR
THEM AND NOT AGAINST THEM.
SO I APPRECIATE YOU GOING I
THINK AT SOME POINT IN TIME
EVERY MEMBER OF THIS COMMISSION
SHOULD ATTEND ONE OF THOSE
CONFERENCES AND I WOULD I WOULD
BE HAPPY TO WORK TOWARDS HAVING
A SMALLER CONFERENCE RIGHT HERE
IN MICHIGAN WITH OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES HERE IN MICHIGAN
WHERE THERE ARE POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSIONS TO HEAR
WHAT OTHER CITIES HERE IN
MICHIGAN ARE DOING GIVEN WHAT
WE ALL GO THROUGH WITHIN THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN.
SO THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
MILBON YES COMMISSIONER ALIKHAN
ACTUALLY MENTIONED QUITE A FEW
THINGS THAT I WAS GOING TO
MENTION BUT THAT'S OK.
THAT THAT MAKES SENSE, YOU
KNOW, BECAUSE THERE'S ACTUALLY
LOTS USE CHOOSE FROM I ALSO GOT
QUITE A BIT OUT OF THE
CONFERENCE CALL.
I WAS THERE AND I WOULD ALSO
ENCOURAGE EVERY COMMISSIONER
WHO CAN MAKE IT NEXT YEAR TO DO
SO.
I'M NOT SURE WHERE IT'S BEING
HELD AND TO SOME YES.
OK, WELL THAT THAT SOUNDS NICE
.
SO YOU KNOW, THERE WAS A THERE
WAS AN OVERSIGHT 101 SESSION
THAT I ATTENDED THAT I LEARNED
QUITE A BIT ABOUT THE REALLY
RELATIVELY SHORT HISTORY
OF OTHER COMMUNITY OVERSIGHT
COMMISSIONS AND FOR INSTANCE, I
LEARNED THAT IN NINETEEN EIGHTY
THERE WERE ONLY 13 OF THEM
AROUND THE COUNTRY IN THE YEAR
2000 THERE WERE A HUNDRED AND
NOW IN 2023 THERE'S 250 AT
LEAST THAT NICOLE KNOWS ABOUT.
THERE MIGHT BE OTHERS BUT THERE
SORT OF THESE CERTIFIED
OVERSIGHT COMMISSIONS THAT THAT
ARE PART OF A AND ALMOST ALL
OF THEM IT SEEMED GREW OUT
OF SOME KIND OF TRAUMA WHICH
WHICH IS WHAT OCCURRED IN OUR
COMMUNITY AS WELL.
IT'S SORT OF LIKE, YOU KNOW, NO
ONE REALLY ESTABLISHES ONE JUST
JUST OUT OF THE BLUE OR BECAUSE
AND AND WHAT IT REALLY TAKES IS
FOR ANYTHING TO HAPPEN IN ANY
OF THESE SETTINGS AND NOT JUST
FOR POLICE OVERSIGHT BUT BUT IN
OTHER ARENAS IS THROUGH A
GROUNDSWELL OF PUBLIC SUPPORT
AND SO, YOU KNOW, ONE THING WE
TALKED ABOUT IS HOW IMPORTANT
ENGAGEMENT IS
THE COMMUNITY USE
OF MEDIA, OUR OWN MEDIA, SOCIAL
MEDIA AND OTHERWISE AND ALSO
PARTNERING TO THE EXTENT
POSSIBLE WITH LOCAL JOURNALISTS
TO GET TO GET WORD OUT ABOUT
THINGS GOING ON IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
AND AS NEAL MENTIONED, WE
ACTUALLY ONE EVENING WE HAD
DINNER WITH THE CONTINGENT FROM
EAST LANSING WHICH WAS WHICH IS
GREAT JUST TO JUST TO COMPARE
NOTES THERE IS LESS OF THAT
THAN I HAD HOPED.
I THOUGHT MAYBE THERE WOULD BE
SOME SMALLER BREAKOUT SESSIONS
WHERE WE COULD REALLY DO A
DEEPER DOVE WITH OTHER WITH
OTHER COMMISSIONS IN OTHER
LOCALITIES.
BUT THERE WASN'T AS MUCH
OF THAT AS I HAD HOPED.
BUT IT DID PROVIDE FOR US
THOUGH AN OPPORTUNITY.
I MEAN ONE OF THE BENEFITS I
THINK IS JUST THE FOUR OF US
GOT TO KNOW EACH OTHER BETTER
AND YOU KNOW, SO THAT WAS THAT
WAS NICE.
WE SPENT A LOT OF TIME TOGETHER
AS WELL.
BUT AS NEAL MENTIONED, WE'VE
ALREADY BEEN TALKING ABOUT THIS
IDEA OF OF TRYING TO CREATE
EVENTS AROUND OR CREATING
FORUMS FOR AT LEAST THE
COMMISSIONS IN THIS STATE.
I THINK WE'RE AWARE OF ONE I
THINK IS ONE OF REPPAS IS ONE
IN DETROIT.
WHAT WAS THE OTHER THAT WE WERE
AWARE OF ?
WELL, WE KNOW THE UNIVERSITY IS
RIGHT IN THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN HAS ONE SO I'LL
REITERATE ALSO THAT WHAT NEIL
SAID ABOUT I WAS I WAS DEEPLY
MOVED BY SOME OF THE FIRST HAND
FIRST PERSON ACCOUNTS
OF ENCOUNTERS THAT LED TO, YOU
KNOW, NOT JUST MINOR ACTION BUT
MAJOR ACTIONS IN DIFFERENT
PLACES TO TO MAKE REAL CHANGE
AND AND I AGREE THERE WAS A
TIME WHEN THE POLICE CHIEFS
WERE INVOLVED IN SOME OF THESE
SESSIONS.
IT MADE A BIG DIFFERENCE.
IT WAS ONLY ONE UNION
REPRESENTATIVE IN ANY OF THE
SESSIONS.
I THINK UNIONS WERE A LITTLE
BIT OF A YOU KNOW, THEY WERE
SORT OF THE ELEPHANT IN THE
ROOM A LOT OF TIMES.
SO THAT'S THAT'S THAT WAS AN
INTERESTING ELEMENT.
FINALLY, I JUST WANT TO SAY
THERE WAS PART OF A SESSION
THEY SPENT A LITTLE TIME
TALKING ABOUT I THINK OF WERE
13 MEASURES WAYS TO TO TO
MEASURE WHETHER YOUR OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION IS BEING EFFECTIVE.
AND I'D LIKE TO SHARE THAT WITH
THE COMMISSION AT SOME POINT IN
ITS MAYBE SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
WE CAN GET INTO OVERTIME.
THANK YOU.
BEFORE WE GO ON I JUST WANT TO
MAKE NOTE OUR INTERIM CHIEF IS
IS WITH US AND I WOULD YOU LIKE
TO I DIDN'T ASK YOU DURING
PUBLIC COMMENT IF YOU THINK
WELL THANK YOU THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
YOU KNOW AND I ALWAYS GET
SOMETHING OUT OF NACOLE THIS
TIME THIS LET ME TELL YOU ONE
THING THAT I GOT OUR FORMER
CHAIR DOES DR. JACKSON WHO IS
NOW ON A STATE COMMISSION SENT
ME A DOCUMENT.
HE SAID STEPHANIE MIGHT BE
INTERESTED IN THIS BECAUSE I'VE
EXPRESSED INTEREST IN THIS
ISSUE BEFORE ACCORDING TO USA
REPORT NINETEEN OF THE
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BEING
PROSECUTED HAVE BEEN PROSECUTED
FOR THE JANUARY SIX REBELLION
AKA ARE FORMER POLICE OFFICERS
OR MILITARY I AND THE OTHER DAY
I MENTIONED THIS THE OTHER DAY
I HEARD ON THE NEWS IN
MARYSVILLE AND I'M NOT SURE
WHERE MARYSVILLE IS BUT I DON'T
THINK IT'S THAT FAR AWAY THERE
IS A DISPUTE A FIGHT BETWEEN
SOME JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL
STUDENTS AND APPARENTLY THE
BLACK STUDENT CLAIMED THAT THE
WHITE STUDENT SAID TO THEM I'M
GOING TO GET MY KKK RELATIVES
TO COME IN AND TAKE CARE OF YOU
.
NOW I DON'T KNOW ABOUT ANYBODY
ELSE BUT IT BOTHERS ME THAT
MANY OF OUR POLICE OFFICERS
DON'T LIVE IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AND I BELIEVE THAT MANY
OF THEM MAY LIVE IN CITIES OR
TOWNSHIP THAT DON'T HAVE MANY
PEOPLE THAT LOOK LIKE ME THAT
BOTHERS ME AND I'M NOT SAYING
THAT EVERYBODY WHO LIVES IN
SOMEPLACE ELSE IS IS A MEMBER
OF A HATE GROUP OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT.
BUT I DO BELIEVE THAT IT IS
POSSIBLE FOR US TO FIGURE A WAY
TO ENSURE THAT OUR TAX DOLLARS
DON'T GO TO SUPPORT HATE
GROUPS.
SO WHAT I GOT FROM DR. JACKSON
IS A PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT GENERAL
ORDERS IN THE CITY OF CHICAGO.
NOW OF COURSE THAT'S A MUCH
LARGER PLACE THAN ANN ARBOR.
>> THEY ALREADY HAD A POLICY
AGAINST SOUNDS CRAZY THAT
PROVIDED THAT POLICE OFFICERS
SHOULD NOT BE PART OF CRIMINAL
GROUPS.
>> YOU THINK SO?
>> BUT WHAT THEY DID IS TO
ACTUALLY EXPAND THE DEFINITION
OF WHAT A CRIMINAL GROUP IS TO
INCLUDE ORGANIZED NATIONS THAT
WOULD SUPPORT WOULD NOT SUPPORT
OUR CONSTITUTION THAT WOULD
WORK AGAINST THE INTERESTS
OF THE UNITED STATES.
>> SO I BROUGHT I BROUGHT IT
HOME.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF EXTRA COPIES
IF ANYONE WANTS TO TAKE A LOOK
AT IT.
I SENT IT TO THE CITY ATTORNEY.
ASK HER OUR CITY ATTORNEY JUST
TO TAKE A LOOK AT IT AND SEE
WHAT YOU THINK.
I'M GOING TO BRING IT UP AGAIN
AND I JUST YOU KNOW, IT'S IT'S
SOMETHING THAT I THINK WITHOUT
I MEAN WE DON'T WANT TO VIOLATE
ANYBODY'S RIGHTS.
YOU CERTAINLY HAVE A RIGHT TO
FREE SPEECH AND YOU HAVE A
RIGHT TO FREE ASSOCIATION BUT
YOU DON'T NECESSARILY HAVE A
RIGHT TO BE AN ANN ARBOR POLICE
OFFICER SO THAT I'M THROWING
THAT OUT IF ANYONE WOULD LIKE
TO COMMENT GENERALLY THAT'S YOU
KNOW, THAT'S A GOOD TIME TO DO
IT.
IF YOU WANT TO SAY STEPHANIE,
STAY AWAY FROM THAT, I'LL
CERTAINLY CONSIDER IT.
BUT I HAVE A COUPLE OF COPIES
OF THAT PROPOSED DRAFT
ORDINANCE OR POLICE POLICY
RATHER FROM THE CITY OF CHICAGO
THAT I'M HAPPY TO LET FOLKS
SEE.
OK, MOVING ON.
WE HAVE A AM I USING THE RIGHT
TERM?
IS MR. KENNEDY LIST SERVE A
LIST OF ALL THE PEOPLE THAT WE
SEND STUFF OUT TO?
YES.
SUBSCRIBE OR SUBSCRIBE IS A
SUBSCRIBER LIST SO WE USED IT
WHEN WE WERE GOING TO BE AT
JUNETEENTH SEND OUT TO A LOT
OF ORGANIZATIONS THAT WE KNOW
WE KNOW THERE OTHER GROUPS AND
ORGANIZATIONS OUT THERE THAT
SOME OF THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
MAY KNOW ABOUT.
>> SO IF YOU ANY KIND OF WE
WANT TO WE WANT TO GET OUT
THERE TO THE PUBLIC.
THIS IS A COMMUNITY COMMISSION
.
SO IF YOU HAVE ANY
ORGANIZATIONS THAT YOU'RE A
PART OF YOUR CHURCH WE HAVE
SYNAGOGUES, WE HAVE MOSQUES, WE
HAVE ALL SORTS OF ORGANIZATIONS
ON OUR LIST.
BUT IF YOU COULD THINK
OF SOMETHING ELSE, EVEN IF YOU
THINK WE MIGHT HAVE IT JUST
SEND MISS KENNEDY AN EMAIL SO
WE CAN ADD THAT TO OUR LIST.
I'M GOING TO BE ASKING THE
OUTREACH COMMITTEE I KEEP I
KEEP HEARING ABOUT YOU KNOW,
WHAT ARE YOU ALL GOING TO DO
NEXT?
NEXT IN TERMS OF A PUBLIC FORUM
WHAT ARE YOU ALL GOING TO DO
AND GETTING OUR NAME OUT THERE?
NEXT IN TERMS OF A PUBLIC FORUM
WE ALSO TALKED WELL, YOU KNOW,
AND GETTING OUR NAME OUT THERE?
OK, I'M SKIPPING AHEAD THURSDAY
WE ALSO TALKED WELL, YOU KNOW,
WE HAVE A PANEL FOR THE
OK, I'M SKIPPING AHEAD THURSDAY
INTERVIEW FOR THE NEW POLICE
WE HAVE A PANEL FOR THE
CHIEF AND I'M INVITING WE HAVE
INTERVIEW FOR THE NEW POLICE
SPACE IF ANYBODY ELSE WHO
CHIEF AND I'M INVITING WE HAVE
HASN'T YET SAID THEY WOULD BE
SPACE IF ANYBODY ELSE WHO
THERE WANTS TO COME.
HASN'T YET SAID THEY WOULD BE
PLEASE COME.
THERE WANTS TO COME.
WE'RE GOING TO BE HERE EIGHT
PLEASE COME.
THIRTY IN THE MORNING ON
WE'RE GOING TO BE HERE EIGHT
THURSDAY AND AS I UNDERSTAND
THIRTY IN THE MORNING ON
IT, WE'RE NOT WE HAVE SUBMITTED
THURSDAY AND AS I UNDERSTAND
QUESTIONS AND I SENT OUT THE
IT, WE'RE NOT WE HAVE SUBMITTED
FINAL QUESTIONS EVERYBODY
QUESTIONS AND I SENT OUT THE
HOPEFULLY YOU HAD A CHANCE TO
FINAL QUESTIONS EVERYBODY
LOOK AT THEM.
HOPEFULLY YOU HAD A CHANCE TO
WE ARE NOT GOING TO ASK THE
LOOK AT THEM.
QUESTIONS.
WE ARE NOT GOING TO ASK THE
ATTORNEY JANETTE'S HAS OUR LIST
QUESTIONS.
OF QUESTIONS AND SHE IS GOING
ATTORNEY JANETTE'S HAS OUR LIST
TO BE THE FACILITATOR.
OF QUESTIONS AND SHE IS GOING
SHE'S GOING TO ASK THE
TO BE THE FACILITATOR.
QUESTIONS AS I UNDERSTAND IT,
SHE'S GOING TO ASK THE
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE SOME KIND
QUESTIONS AS I UNDERSTAND IT,
OF A FORUM THAT WE WILL FILL
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE SOME KIND
OUT AND EXPRESS OUR OPINIONS
OF A FORUM THAT WE WILL FILL
ABOUT THE CANDIDATES.
OUT AND EXPRESS OUR OPINIONS
I'M WONDERING OF THOSE WHO ARE
ABOUT THE CANDIDATES.
GOING TO BE HERE, DO WE WANT TO
I'M WONDERING OF THOSE WHO ARE
GET TOGETHER MAYBE FOR LUNCH
GOING TO BE HERE, DO WE WANT TO
RIGHT AFTER THIS IS SUPPOSED TO
GET TOGETHER MAYBE FOR LUNCH
GO FROM EIGHT THIRTY TO TO
RIGHT AFTER THIS IS SUPPOSED TO
TWELVE THIRTY AND MAYBE WE CAN
GO FROM EIGHT THIRTY TO TO
GET TOGETHER.
TWELVE THIRTY AND MAYBE WE CAN
I DON'T KNOW IF THE BASEMENT
GET TOGETHER.
CONFERENCE ROOMS AVAILABLE
I DON'T KNOW IF THE BASEMENT
MAYBE WE CAN CHECK ON THAT.
CONFERENCE ROOMS AVAILABLE
WELL WHAT DO YOU THINK?
MAYBE WE CAN CHECK ON THAT.
YES.
WELL WHAT DO YOU THINK?
YES IDEA JUST EVEN IF WE DON'T
YES.
VOTE OR WHATEVER WE CAN GET
YES IDEA JUST EVEN IF WE DON'T
TOGETHER WITH YOU CHECK ON THAT
VOTE OR WHATEVER WE CAN GET
AND SEE THIS AND MAYBE GET SOME
TOGETHER WITH YOU CHECK ON THAT
SANDWICHES OR SOMETHING.
AND SEE THIS AND MAYBE GET SOME
WE CAN TALK ABOUT THAT LATER
SANDWICHES OR SOMETHING.
AND WE'LL JUST HAVE LUNCH SO
WE CAN TALK ABOUT THAT LATER
AND THEN COUNCIL WILL BE
AND WE'LL JUST HAVE LUNCH SO
MEETING WITH THE CANDIDATES
AND THEN COUNCIL WILL BE
INTERVIEWS THE FOLLOWING
MEETING WITH THE CANDIDATES
MORNING ON FRIDAY MORNING.
INTERVIEWS THE FOLLOWING
SO SHOULD YOU AFTER YOU ALL
MORNING ON FRIDAY MORNING.
MEET YOU HAVE YOUR MOMENT TO
SO SHOULD YOU AFTER YOU ALL
REFLECT AND WOULD LIKE, YOU
MEET YOU HAVE YOUR MOMENT TO
KNOW, COUNCIL MEMBERS TO ASK
REFLECT AND WOULD LIKE, YOU
QUESTIONS OR FOLLOW UP.
KNOW, COUNCIL MEMBERS TO ASK
THERE'S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR TO
QUESTIONS OR FOLLOW UP.
LET US KNOW, YOU KNOW.
THERE'S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR TO
SO I THINK YOU'RE MEETING WITH
LET US KNOW, YOU KNOW.
THE CANDIDATE AND THE
SO I THINK YOU'RE MEETING WITH
CANDIDATES ON THIRD THURSDAY
THE CANDIDATE AND THE
MORNING WE MEET ON FRIDAY
CANDIDATES ON THIRD THURSDAY
MORNING.
MORNING WE MEET ON FRIDAY
FEEL FREE TO JOIN US FOR LUNCH
MORNING.
,COME DOWN TO THE CONFERENCE.
FEEL FREE TO JOIN US FOR LUNCH
I THINK CYNTHIA HAS GOT SOME
,COME DOWN TO THE CONFERENCE.
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS.
I THINK CYNTHIA HAS GOT SOME
I THINK THE QUESTIONS ARE
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS.
ALREADY PREPARED.
I THINK THE QUESTIONS ARE
I THINK THE QUESTIONS THAT WE
ALREADY PREPARED.
ARE YOU
THERE FOLLOW UP
QUESTIONS THAT I THINK WE YES.
WE'RE ALLOWED THAT WE'RE
ALLOWED TO ASK FOLLOW UP
QUESTION WE ARE THERE CERTAIN
THEMES YOU THAT YOU'D LIKE US
TO CONSIDER THINK ABOUT AND
REFLECT ON IN ADVANCE OF OF OUR
OUR MEETING WITH THE CANDIDATES
AT LEAST WILL HELP US GIVE US
SOME FEEDBACK IN CASE SOME
OF US CAN'T MAKE IT TO THE
COMMUNITY MEETING EITHER.
YOU OR OUR NATION.
I KNOW THERE'S LIKE STRICT
GUIDELINES ONE CAN ASK AND WE
HAVE THESE QUESTIONS ON FRIDAY
MORNING BUT WE CAN ASK FOLLOW
UP QUESTIONS AND IF THERE'S
JUST SOME THINGS REOCCURRING,
THINGS THAT YOU'D LIKE US TO
THINK ABOUT, YOU DEFINITELY
CONVEY IT TO COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I KNOW CYNTHIA AND I WILL BE
THERE FRIDAY MORNING.
YEAH.
I DON'T KNOW WHO ELSE WILL BE
THERE AND IN ADDITION THERE
WILL BE A POLICE CANDIDATE
RECEPTION THAT EVENING FROM
FIVE POINT SEVEN P.M. AND THE
JUSTICE CENTER THAT'S RIGHT
NEXT DOOR.
SO YOU'LL HAVE A TIME TO MEET
WITH THE CANDIDATES AND ASK
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS IF YOU
LIKE.
YEAH, THAT'S THURSDAY.
THAT'S THE REALLY GOOD
OPPORTUNITY TO, YOU KNOW, ASK
QUESTIONS AND KIND OF GET TO
KNOW WELL OK I GUESS CHAT A
LITTLE BIT.
YEAH.
I THINK THAT'S YOUR OPPORTUNITY
TO HAVE MORE CANDID DISCUSSIONS
DIRECTLY WITH CANDIDATES ON
THURSDAY NIGHT I I KNOW I CAN'T
BE THERE.
I'M IN CARPOOL FOR THE MUSICAL
SO THAT'S WHY I'M ASKING IF YOU
ALL HAVE ADDITIONAL THOUGHTS
SINCE I CAN'T BE THE GREEN
MEANING TO SEND IT TO US BEFORE
ON FRIDAY I KNOW IT WOULD BE
HELPFUL TO ME.
>> OK, I'LL BE THERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THAT'S THURSDAY AT FIVE
THURSDAY THURSDAY AT FIVE
PRACTICE IN THE JUSTICE CENTER.
>> SO EVEN IF SOME OF THE
COMMISSIONERS IF YOU CAN'T MAKE
THAT THURSDAY MORNING AT EIGHT
THIRTY, THERE'S AN OPPORTUNITY
THERE AND I SORT OF I PUT THAT
IN THAT POSITION BECAUSE I WAS
THINKING AS WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
OUTREACH MAYBE WE CAN GET ONCE
ONCE THE NEW CHIEF IS HIRED
HAVE A FORUM TO MEET THE MEET
THE NEW CHIEF AND HAVE A
SPONSOR THAT SO YOU KNOW, AS WE
THINK ABOUT OUTREACH AND AND
THINGS THAT WE WANT TO BE DOING
,WE ALSO ARE TALKING ABOUT A
NEWSLETTER AND COMMISSIONER
ALIKHAN AND I THOUGHT WE MIGHT
WORK ON THAT.
WE'RE HAPPY TO HAVE SOMEONE
ELSE JOIN US JUST TO GET THE
WORD OUT THERE AND MAYBE ATTACH
IT TO OUR SUBSCRIBERS,
SUBSCRIBE LIST AND ALSO TO THIS
OUR CITY PAGE.
YES, JUST TO LET PEOPLE KNOW
WHAT'S GOING ON.
I HAVE AND WE'RE GOING TO BE
TALKING ABOUT I THINK THE
COMPLAINT PROCESS.
SO SOME OF MY REMARKS I'LL SAY
TILL THAT.
BUT I DO WANT TO SAY THAT I
HAVE ASKED I T TO TRY AND GET
US A NEW CASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
.
I KNOW IT'S NOT IT'S A LOT
OF WORK AND MAYBE THAT'S THE
REASON WHY WHEN I SAY WE CAN WE
CAN USE ONE MORE INFORMATION
MANAGER I DON'T GET ANY GET ANY
VOLUNTEERS BUT A LOT OF WORK.
BUT YOU KNOW, WHEN THE CASES
COME IN THEY COME IN TO THE IF
THE COMPLAINT COMES INTO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT THEY'LL PUT A
NUMBER ON IT AND THEN COMES
OVER TO PUT ANOTHER ANOTHER
NUMBER ON IT.
SO SOME OF THE CASES HAVE TWO
NUMBERS AND THEN YOU HAVE TO
LOOK HERE IF YOU WANT TO SEE
THAT THE BODY WORN VIDEOS AND
YOU HAVE TO LOOK HERE TO SEE
WHAT THE POLICE SAID ABOUT THE
THEIR INVESTIGATION DARYN.
>> IT'S JUST TO ME CUMBERSOME
AND I FIGURE, YOU KNOW, I'M AS
SMART AS THE NEXT PERSON AND IF
IT'S HARD FOR ME IT'S JUST TOO
DIFFICULT.
>> IT'S JUST TOO DIFFICULT.
I HAVE TO TO IT I'D LIKE TO
HAVE START JANUARY 1ST TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR WE START FRESH AND
SO WE'LL SEE WE'LL SEE IF THAT
WORKS OUT AND I WANT TO ASK
COUNCILPERSON HARRIS I KNOW
SHE'S GOING TO HAVE CHANCE TO
TALK LATER BUT WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT OUR COMMUNITY OUTREACH
AND PUBLIC FORUM AND SO FORTH,
I KNOW SHE HAS SOMETHING THAT
SHE WANTS TO TALK TO US ABOUT
SO I'M GOING TO INVITE HER TO
TAKE A FEW MINUTES NOW SO I WAS
SPEAKING WITH CHAIR CARTER
ABOUT THE SCOTTS COHORT THAT IS
RUN BY THE VERA INSTITUTE
OF JUSTICE THAT I WAS A PART
OF AND THAT WAS A COHORT OF
DIFFERENT JURISDICTIONS,
MUNICIPALITIES AROUND THE
UNITED STATES THAT WERE THAT
ARE WORKING ON BASICALLY
DRIVING AND DRIVING EQUALITY
AND THINGS LIKE THAT WITHIN
THEIR VARIOUS AREAS.
SO WE HAD OUR LAST MEETING A
COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO AND YOU ALL
ARE AWARE THAT WE WORKED WITH
PHILLY, PHILADELPHIA WITH OUR
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE
COUNCIL MEMBER ISAIAH THOMAS
AND THE THE TITLE OF OUR
MEETING A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO
WAS CALLED IMPLEMENTOR ACTION.
SO IT'S KIND OF LIKE BASICALLY
IT'S AFTER YOU PASSED THE
LEGISLATION WHAT NOW?
AND SO WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT
NOW IS A LITTLE BIT PREMATURE
BECAUSE I'M ACTUALLY MEETING
WITH PHILLY TOMORROW WITH HIS I
THINK HIMSELF OR HE AND HIS
STAFF TO DISCUSS WAYS THAT THEY
EDUCATED THEIR COMMUNITY ABOUT
THEIR DRIVE EQUALITY.
OURS IS AN ORDINANCE THERE'S
THIS CALLED SOMETHING DIFFERENT
BUT BECAUSE NOW WE'VE PASSED IT
RIGHT.
BUT WHAT NOW AND WHAT I TALK
WITH CHAIR HARDER ABOUT LAST
NIGHT WAS I THOUGHT THAT AGAIN
A LITTLE BIT PREMATURE BEFORE
WE MEET TOMORROW BEFORE I MEET
WITH PHILLY TOMORROW.
BUT I THINK THAT IT IS
IMPORTANT THAT WE CONTINUE TO
EDUCATE THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE.
THERE ARE A LOT OF INDIVIDUALS
THAT ARE UNAWARE THAT WE PASSED
THIS.
I RECOGNIZED IT IN MY SMALL
BUBBLE.
FOLKS KNOW ABOUT IT BUT YOU
KNOW, I'M OUTSIDE OF THAT SMALL
BUBBLE THERE ARE A LOT
OF INDIVIDUALS THAT THAT ARE
UNAWARE AND SO YOU KNOW, SHE
AND I JUST CHAT A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT LIKE FOR EXAMPLE PHILLY
THEY HAD THEY HAVE A LITTLE
CARD THAT THEY DISTRIBUTE THAT
LISTS THEIR YEAH.
THAT LIST OF DIFFERENT REASONS
THAT THEIR OFFICERS CAN NO
LONGER STOP INDIVIDUALS AS A
PRIMARY REASON TO STOP SO I
THINK, YOU KNOW, I'VE REACHED
OUT TO HER ABOUT ABOUT OUR
BUDGET AND THINKING ABOUT I
THINK THAT WOULD BE NICE TO
HAVE SOMETHING LIKE THAT TO
DISTRIBUTE AT VARIOUS, YOU
KNOW, EVENTS MAYBE GET TO THE
YOU KNOW, THE NON-PROFITS AND
ORGANIZATIONS WITHIN OUR COUNTY
AND YEAH, IT'S JUST I AM
MEETING WITH THEM TOMORROW SO
THEIR COMMUNICATION TEAM AND
THEY'RE GOING TO SHARE WAYS
THAT THEY HAVE, YOU KNOW,
BASICALLY COMMUNICATED TO THEIR
COMMUNITY ABOUT THE THEIR
DRIVING QUALITY.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT
BECAUSE THE PEOPLE ASKING ME
WELL WHAT YOU KNOW WELL HOW'S
IT GOING?
WE'RE YOU KNOW, WE'LL SEE I
MEAN WE'RE YOU KNOW, I THINK
THERE'S SOME DATA AVAILABLE AND
I'VE BEEN MEETING WITH OUR
PROSECUTOR MEETING WITH HER
AGAIN TOMORROW.
SO I CAN FOLLOW BACK UP THE
NEXT TIME WE ALL MEET, YOU
KNOW, SO BUT YEAH.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
AND AGAIN, THAT'S PART OF THE
YOU KNOW, OUTREACH IF WE HAVE A
NEWSLETTER PUT PUT THAT IN IT
AND AND SO FORTH.
I MEAN WITH REGARD TO THE
DRIVING QUALITY ORDINANCE, AS
YOU KNOW WE'RE THAT COUNCIL HAS
PASSED AN ORDINANCE FOR THE THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT TO CONTINUE
TO COLLECT THE DRIVE THE
TRAFFIC DATA AND I'VE SPOKEN
WITH THE CHAIR OF THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION AND WE'RE I
THINK I MENTIONED THIS AT THE
LAST MEETING.
WE WANT TO HAVE A JOINT
COMMITTEE AND I'VE SPOKEN TO
OUR INTERIM CHIEF ABOUT WE PLAN
TO GET TOGETHER AND MAKE SURE
THAT THAT COLLECTION GOES
FORWARD SO THAT WE HAVE THAT
INFORMATION TO SEE WHAT
DIFFERENCE, IF ANY THE
ORDINANCE HAS MADE.
>> OK, NOW I WANT TO DO
SOMETHING A LITTLE DIFFERENT
AND I KNOW YOU SAID YOU'RE
LOOKING AS YOU COME IN LATE AND
YOU WANT TO DO SOMETHING
DIFFERENT BUT THAT'S OK.
I WANT TO TAKE ABOUT TEN
MINUTES AND DO A CASE STUDY.
YOU KNOW, WE GET OUR COMPLAINTS
IN AND THE WE HAVE THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS WHO LOOK
AT THEM.
I THINK WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
DEVELOP SOME WAY FOR THE
COMMISSION TO MAKE
RECOMMENDATIONS BASED ON THINGS
THAT THAT THAT COME UP IN OUR
COMPLAINT REVIEW.
>> BUT THIS THIS IS AN ACTUAL
COMPLAINT THAT CAME IN AND I
READ IT AND I HAD A REACTION.
>> I MEANT I GAVE THE FACTS TO
SOMEONE THAT I TRUST VERY WELL.
THEY HAD A DIFFERENT REACTION.
SO I'M GOING TO EXPLAIN TO YOU
THE FACTS AS IT CAME IN TO US
AND I'D LIKE TO KNOW YOUR
REACTION BECAUSE TO ME IT SEEMS
MAYBE THIS IS THE KIND OF THING
THAT WE NEED TO CONSIDER A
RECOMMENDATION.
OK, HERE
EFFECTS UNITED.
WELL, I DON'T WE'RE NOT GOING
TO MAKE THE RECOMMENDATION YET.
NO, JUST CASE STUDY.
OK, OK.
A GENTLEMAN WAS OK COMPLAINT
CAME IN TO THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT THAT THERE WAS
SOMEONE WHO APPEARED SICK AND
WAS PASSED OUT DOWNTOWN BY THE
BUS STATION AND APPEARED TO
NEED MEDICAL ATTENTION.
>> POLICE CAR ARRIVES WITHIN A
FEW MINUTES.
THEY SEE A MAN SITTING YOU
KNOW, WHILE THEY HAVE THIS BIG
PLANTERS SITTING UP ON THE
PLANTER NEXT TO HIM APPARENTLY
ON THE PLATTE PLANTER IS A
BOTTLE OPEN BOTTLE OF VODKA.
THEY APPROACHED THE MAN WHO
DOES NOT AT THIS POINT SEEM TO
NEED ANY MEDICAL ATTENTION.
>> THEY SAY YOU CAN'T HAVE AN
OPEN BOTTLE OF ALCOHOL.
>> IT'S AGAINST THE CITY
ORDINANCE.
HE SAYS BASICALLY IF YOU LEAVE
ME ALONE THEY CONTINUE TO SAY
WE NEED YOUR I.D. BECAUSE WE
ARE GOING TO ISSUE YOU A CIVIL
INFRACTION, A TICKET FOR HAVING
THIS OPEN BOTTLE OF VODKA.
HIS RESPONSE IS THE SAME LEAVE
ME ALONE.
A COUPLE OF BYSTANDERS SAY
LEAVE ALONE HE'S NOT DOING
ANYTHING.
ONE THING LEADS TO ANOTHER.
EVENTUALLY THE MAN DOES NOT
PRODUCE HIS I.D. HE IS WRESTLED
TO THE GROUND HANDCUFFED AND AT
THAT POINT TAKEN TO THE
HOSPITAL BECAUSE HE COMPLAINS
THAT HE HAS INJURIES AND NOW HE
BEARS A THREAT OF A LAWSUIT
AGAINST THE CITY.
NOW I'M NOT GOING TO TELL YOU
WHAT I WHAT WHAT MY INITIAL
THOUGHT WAS DOES ANYBODY HAVE
ANY REACTION TO THAT STORY
?
YEAH, WELL, YEAH.
REMINDS ME OF ALL RIGHT, THERE
YOU GO.
IT REMINDS ME OF YOU KNOW, WHY
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET MORE LIKE
SOCIAL WORKERS OR PEOPLE THAT
ARE MORE MENTAL HEALTH
PROFESSIONALS TO DO SOME
OF THIS INTERACTION.
SO IT WAS BASICALLY A FALSE
COMPLAINT AND I THINK THAT
HAPPENS A LOT.
YOU KNOW, THEY KNOW THAT MAYBE
IF THEY SAY SOMEONE NEEDS
MEDICAL ATTENTION THEY'LL GET A
RESPONSE, FALSE COMPLAINT THAT
THEN LED TO THAT INTERACTION
WHICH WAS A PRETTY UNFORTUNATE
INTERACTION BECAUSE REGARDLESS
OF THE PERSON HAVING ALCOHOL
WHICH IS AGAINST THE ORDINANCE
,THE STEPS OF HANDCUFFING
THEM, ARRESTING THEM TO THE
GROUND, PUTTING THEM IN THE
HOSPITAL, IT JUST CREATES A
WHOLE CHAIN OF EVENTS THAT IS
VERY, VERY BAD FOR A LOT
OF PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, WHICH I
THINK IS AS YOU'RE SAYING,
POTENTIALLY VERY EXPENSIVE
MAYBE ISSUE THAT WAS
CREATED BECAUSE OF THAT.
>> SO AND IT TURNS OUT WHICH
THE OFFICERS DID KNOW AT THE
TIME BUT IT TURNS OUT THAT THIS
GENTLEMAN DID HAVE SOME ISSUES
THAT PERHAPS THE RESPONSE AND I
DON'T KNOW WHERE THAT WHERE
THAT IS ANYBODY KNOW IF
SOMEBODY'S STILL WORKING ON
THAT UNARMED RESPONSE BUT
ANYWAY OK IN IN ANY BY ANY
OTHER REACTIONS TO THIS, IS
THERE ANYTHING THAT YOU MIGHT
THINK OF IN TERMS
OF RECOMMENDING COMMISSIONER
GREENE?
OK.
NOW THE QUESTION I WOULD HAVE
IMMEDIATELY IS WHAT IS THE
PROPER RESPONSE BY THE POLICE
WHEN SOMEONE REFUSES TO GIVE
I.D. THERE SHOULD BE SOME TYPE
OF PROTOCOL.
I'M CERTAIN THAT THERE IS I
DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS OR WHEN
SOMEONE REFUSES TO GIVE THE
RIDE IN ANY SITUATION WHAT IS
THE PROTOCOL?
OK.
I'M NOT SURE IT'S WRESTLING TO
THE GROUND BUT I'M SURE THAT
THERE'S SOMETHING EXPECTED THAT
THE POLICE ARE SUPPOSED TO DO
IN A SITUATION WHERE THERE'S
SUSPICION THAT A CRIME MAY HAVE
BEEN OCCURRING EVEN IF IT'S A
MINOR INFRACTION AND WE HAVE TO
HAVE SOME I.D. FROM YOU FOR
SOME REASON.
WHAT IS THE RESPONSE OF THE
POLICE?
WHAT SHOULD THE RESPONSE BE
WHEN SOMEONE REFUSES TO GIVE
THEIR I.D. OR REFUSES TO
COOPERATE?
>> SO IT MAY BE MAYBE THERE IS
A POLICY I DON'T KNOW.
>> MR. MILGRAM, ANY IDEAS?
WELL, YEAH, WE I MEAN I DID
TAKE A CURSORY LOOK AT THE
POLICIES THAT I HAVE IN MY
POSSESSION AT THE MOMENT THAT
THAT COULD RELATE TO THIS AND I
THOUGHT AT BEST IT WAS VAGUE.
I YOU KNOW, I I'M NOT AWARE
THAT THERE IS THAT DOESN'T MEAN
THERE ISN'T I WOULD LOOK
THROUGH EVERY EVERY YOU KNOW,
EVERY PAGE OF POLICY THAT I
HAVE AND SO YOU KNOW, BECAUSE I
AGREE WITH WITH COMMISSIONER
GREENE THAT IF THERE IS ARE
THERE OUGHT TO BE RIGHT ABOUT
ABOUT WHAT IS THE PROTOCOL
OF COURSE.
AND IF YOU'RE JUST WALKING DOWN
THE STREET AND YOU'RE ASKED TO
GIVE YOUR IDENTIFICATION, YOU
KNOW, THAT WOULD SEEM TO BE,
YOU KNOW, AN UNFAIR REQUEST.
BUT IF THERE IS AN INFRACTION,
AN ACTUAL INFRACTION ON THE
BOOKS THAT THE POLICE ARE
REQUIRED NOT NECESSARILY
REQUIRED BUT BUT IF THEY IF
THEY SEE AN INFRACTION
OCCURRING AND THEY WANT TO GIVE
A TICKET, THEN IN THAT CASE
THEY NEED TO ASK FOR I.D. IF
THEY'RE GOING TO PROCEED WITH
THAT.
BUT CLEARLY I THINK WE WE ALL
SORT OF FEEL LIKE WRESTLING
SOMEBODY TO THE GROUND AND
HANDCUFFING THEM.
BUT IF YOU'RE GOING TO DETAIN
SOMEBODY IS THAT THE POLICY TO
HANDCUFF EVERY TIME YOU DO YOU
DETAIN I MEAN I JUST DON'T KNOW
THESE THINGS.
I'D LIKE I'D LIKE TO KNOW AND
AND IF WE DON'T HAVE CLEAR
POLICIES ON THESE ISSUES, WE
NEED TO SO MY QUESTION OR
COMMENT WOULD BE ABOUT WHAT
STRATEGIES OR SKILL THAT THE
OFFICERS HAVE TO DIFFUSE THE
SITUATION BEFOREHAND.
RIGHT.
SO WE GOT TO A POINT WHERE NOW
SOMEONE IS ON THE GROUND AND
HANDCUFFED.
WHAT DID WE DO BEFORE THAT TO
GET TO THAT?
WHY?
WHAT THINGS DID WE PULL OUT
OF OUR TOOLBOX TO BE ABLE TO TO
WORK WITH THIS PERSON WHO DID
NOT APPEAR TO BE IN DANGER IF
THE CALL SAID AND YES, THERE'S
AN ORDINANCE FOR NOT HAVING
OPEN ALCOHOL IN THE CITY BUT
THERE'S ALSO OFFICERS HAVING
THE ABILITY TO MAKE SOME OTHER
DECISIONS AND IT DIDN'T HAVE TO
BE JUST THE TICKET WHICH
ESCALATED TO THIS OTHER
BEHAVIOR FOR WHAT WHAT ARE THE
THINGS THAT OFFICERS TRIED
BEFORE THEY GOT TO NOW I'M
HANDCUFFING YOU AND AND IN
THOSE THINGS SO OK.
SO YEAH, I HAVE A SIMILAR
THOUGHT AS I WAS LISTENING TO
YOUR CASE STUDY I WAS THINKING
SO WHO CALLED 911?
YES.
AND MY FIRST QUESTION AND DID
THAT CIVILIAN DID THAT PERSON
ON THE STREET I'M JUST THINKING
OF WHAT I WOULD DO.
I SAW A MAN SITTING THERE SEEMS
TO BE A LITTLE OUT OF SORTS I
WOULD SAY CAN I HELP YOU?
I WOULD SAY AS A AS A CARING
INDIVIDUAL IS THERE IS THERE
SOMETHING I CAN DO TO HELP YOU
?
YOU KNOW, DO YOU NEED MEDICAL
ATTENTION?
DO YOU NEED SOMEONE TO HELP
YOU?
DO YOU NEED SOME HELP WITH
WHAT'S GOING ON?
BUT EVEN AFTER THAT AND SOMEONE
CALLS 911 ONE THAT THE POLICE
OFFICER SAY THERE IS THERE A
PROBLEM?
CAN I HELP YOU?
IS THERE ANYTHING I CAN DO TO
HELP YOU?
COULD THAT HAVE BEEN AN
APPROACH AND AND YOU KNOW, I
DON'T I'M NOT GOING TO SECOND
GUESS WHAT ACTUALLY HAPPENED
THERE.
I WASN'T THERE.
I'M JUST LISTENING TO AS YOU
WERE DESCRIBING, YOU KNOW, THE
REPORT THAT YOU UNDERSTAND.
BUT YOU KNOW, I KEEP THINKING
BACK TO WHAT ARE SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT COULD BE DONE
EITHER FROM THE PASSERS BY WHO
WERE THERE.
I KNOW THAT AREA.
IT'S IT'S PEOPLE ARE THERE A
LOT AND THERE'S A LOT OF PEOPLE
THERE.
COULD OTHER PEOPLE HAVE GONE
OVER I MEAN BECAUSE I DO THAT I
WOULD WALK OVER AND SAY IS
THERE SOMETHING I CAN DO TO
HELP YOU MAN?
AND IF HE SAYS F YOU GET AWAY
FROM ME, LEAVE ME ALONE.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I'M NOT GOING
TO GO INTO ALL ALL THE
DIFFERENT PERMUTATIONS OF THIS
BUT BUT INSTEAD OF IMMEDIATELY
GOING TO YOU'RE VIOLATING, YOU
KNOW, AN ORDINANCE THERE'S
THERE'S POTENTIALLY A PERSON IN
IN SOME KIND OF DISTRESS THERE
WHETHER IT'S MEDICAL OR MENTAL
HEALTH OR WHATEVER.
HOW DO YOU APPROACH SOMEONE AND
YOU KNOW, I WOULD BRING THIS
BACK TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
AND THEIR POLICIES AROUND
TRAINING POLICE OFFICERS AROUND
MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES.
IS THERE AN ARMED RESPONSE
PEOPLE WHO ARE BETTER ABLE TO
HANDLE THESE KIND OF THINGS AND
WHERE ARE WE WITH THAT IN THIS
COMMUNITY?
YOU KNOW, THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
THINGS I THINK ABOUT
BEFORE
SOMEBODY ENDS UP ON THE GROUND
WITH HANDCUFFS.
I THINK WE SHOULD TAKE THE
INCIDENT IN TOTALITY NOT AND
JUST BRIEF ENCOUNTERS THE THE
POLICE WERE CALLED TO THAT SIDE
BECAUSE THERE WAS A CALL THE
THE GENTLEMAN HAD PASSED AWAY.
HE WAS VOMITING AND THEN
RECOVERED FROM THAT AND HE WAS
SITTING ON THE PLANTER IN THE
PUBLIC AREA.
THERE IS NO WAY TO JUDGE
WHETHER OR NOT HE'S JUST BEEN
SITTING OVER THERE WAS TOTALLY
HEALTHY TO CONTINUE HIS WHAT HE
WAS DOING AND ALSO YOU HAVE THE
PUBLIC OVER HERE THE POLICE
ARRIVED.
THEY HAD SOME KIND OF TALK WITH
THE GENTLEMAN BUT THERE WAS NO
RESPONSE AND A POSITIVE
RESPONSE FROM THE GENTLEMAN
WHEN THE POLICE OFFICERS ARE
ASKING IF YOU LOOK AT THE VIDEO
THERE WAS A MEDICAL STAFF THAT
WAS OVER THERE, YOU WOULD SEE
PART OF THEM.
SO THE POLICE OFFICER ARRIVED
AND AND THEY WANTED TO CONNECT
WITH THE CITIZEN.
HOWEVER, THINGS ESCALATED IN A
WAY THAT REQUIRED THE POLICE TO
REACT THE WAY THEY DID.
THERE WAS ANOTHER INCIDENT
WHERE AGAIN WE GOT WE GOT THE
COMPLAINT WE BACK I THINK ONE
OF THE INCIDENTS WE HAD A
SUICIDE PERSON THAT THE POLICE
HAD LOCATED AND HANDCUFFED THAT
INDIVIDUAL AND TOOK HER TO THE
FORT FOR MEDICAL ATTENTION.
SO THE FACT THAT A PERSON BEING
HANDCUFFED TO BEING TAKEN FOR
MEDICAL ATTENTION I THINK IS
NOT SOMETHING THAT IS NOT
UNUSUAL.
BUT AGAIN, WHAT WE NEED TO KNOW
IS ALL WORK AND THE FUTURE
ABOUT IT.
DOES THIS MEAN THAT THE ONLY
ONES WHO ARE GOING TO BE THERE,
ONLY THE POLICE OFFICERS OR WE
WOULD WE HAVE SOME PEOPLE WHO
ARE HAVING MENTAL EXPERIENCE OR
SOCIAL WORK EXPERIENCE TO BE
THERE.
I KNOW THE POLICE OFFICER
PROBABLY REACTED IN A WAY THAT
WERE SEEN BY OTHERS AS VERY
AGGRESSIVE, LED TO PROBABLY
SOME INJURIES ON PART OF THE
POLICE OFFICERS.
THEY GOT INJURED PLUS THE
GENTLEMAN ALSO WAS OR HE WAS
TAKEN TO THE HOSPITAL.
HE WAS SEDATED ALREADY AND I'M
NOT SURE WHAT HAS HAPPENED
AFTER THAT.
IT'S JUST WE HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE AT THE PICTURE FROM
DIFFERENT AVENUES BUT DOES NOT
MEAN THAT THERE ARE NO OTHER
ALTERNATIVES.
I THINK WE HAVE TO LOOK FOR
OTHER ALTERNATIVES.
WAS THERE ANY INCIDENT BEFORE
THAT AND AN INDIVIDUAL WHO WAS
PROBABLY MIGHT BE HARMFUL TO
HIM OR HERSELF TO BE HANDCUFFED
AND BEING TAKEN FOR MEDICAL
ATTENTION?
IT HAPPENED SO SO IT'S JUST THE
LINE SOMETIMES IS SEEING TO BE
AGGRESSIVE ON PART OF THE
POLICE OFFICERS OVER THERE.
IF THEY WERE WALKING THEY WERE
CALLED PLUS IT WAS NOT AN
ISOLATED AREA.
WHAT IF THIS GENTLEMAN WAS LEFT
ALONE AND HIM AND THEN HAD
ENCOUNTER WITH OTHER
INDIVIDUALS OTHER CITIZENS OVER
THERE?
SO SO WE REALLY WE CANNOT JUST
TAKE ONE SCENARIO AND PROCEED
WITH IT WITHOUT LOOKING AT THE
RAMIFICATIONS OF THE ACTIONS.
BUT YES, WE NEED TO FIND OTHER
WAYS THAT WE COULD DE-ESCALATE
THE ISSUES NOT TO REACH THAT
POINT OF OF BEING HANDCUFFED,
BEING TAKEN AGAINST THAT
PERSON'S WILL ALSO.
BUT AGAIN, I THINK WE NEED TO
WE NEED TO BE CAREFUL ABOUT
WHAT IS THE REACTION AND THE
THE ACTION OF OF THE POLICE AS
WELL AS THE INDIVIDUAL AS WELL
AS THE SAFETY OF THE COMMUNITY
OR THE INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE ON
.
THANK YOU.
WELL, GO AHEAD.
YEAH, COMMISSIONER OFMAN I
APPRECIATE THE ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION ABOUT THIS CASE
THAT HELPS TO MAKE US
UNDERSTAND A LITTLE BIT BETTER.
AND AS AN INFORMATION MANAGER I
MEAN WE WOULD LOOK AT ALL
OF THAT WHO LOOK AT THE
VIDEOTAPE, WE'LL LOOK AT ALL
OF THOSE THINGS.
AND ONE OF THE KEY THINGS THAT
I WOULD BE LOOKING AT IS DID AN
OFFICER ACT IN A PROFESSIONAL
WAY IN MY LINE OF BUSINESS I
GET TOSSED OUT IN COURT ALL
KINDS OF NAMES REGULARLY HOW I
REACT IS A IS AN IMPORTANT PART
IN HOLDING OUR OFFICERS TO A
STANDARD THAT YOU'RE IN A JOB
WHERE YOU'RE GOING TO BE CALLED
OUT OF YOUR NAME IN IN OTHER
THINGS AND I'M PRETTY SURE THAT
THERE ARE STRATEGIES AND MAKING
SURE THAT THOSE STRATEGIES WERE
FOLLOWED IS TO NOT TO GET TO
WHERE THE OFFICER ESCALATED
THEMSELVES TO SO THE VIDEOTAPE
WOULD SHOW US THAT THE OTHER
INFORMATION THAT YOU'VE TALKED
ABOUT HELPS TO CLARIFY MORE
OF THE STORY AND UNDERSTAND IT
AND I JUST WANT OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WHO ARE NOT
FAIRLY AT THIS POINT OPERATING
IN AN INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
STRATEGY.
WE THINK ABOUT ALL THOSE THINGS
WHEN WE REVIEW A CASE AND WE
WHEN WE SEE A VIDEOTAPE AND
WHEN WE READ WHAT OFFICERS SEE
IT AND WHAT A CITIZEN SAID SO
WE TAKE IN ALL OF THAT
INFORMATION AS WE GET READY TO
MAKE DECISION AS TO IF A POLICY
WAS VIOLATED OR IF WE SEE THAT
MAYBE THERE SHOULD BE SOME
CHANGE IN POLICY OR IF WE FEEL
AS IF THE OFFICER DID WHAT THE
OFFICER WAS SUPPOSED TO DO IN
THAT CASE WHICH WHICH HAPPENS A
LOT.
SO IT'S I APPRECIATE THE
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION BUT I
ALSO WANT TO BRING CLARITY WITH
WE LOOK AT ALL OF THOSE THINGS
AS WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE A
DECISION.
THANK YOU.
BUT YOU KNOW, I HAVE ONE MORE
COMMENT.
THIS ACTUALLY REMINDS ME
OF THAT DRIVING EQUALITY
ORDINANCE THAT YOU SAID BECAUSE
THE DRIVING QUALITY ORDINANCE
WAS CREATED TO MINIMALIZE, YOU
KNOW, CONTACT FOR UNNECESSARY
REASONS.
RIGHT.
SO TAKE AWAY A LOT OF THE
REASONS THAT PEOPLE WERE PULLED
OVER I THINK IN A SIMILAR WAY
SOMETHING LIKE THIS HAPPENS
WITH THE ON THE STREET
INTERACTIONS TOO LIKE PEOPLE ON
THE STREET.
WE NEED A SIMILAR THING LIKE
THAT.
IT'S ALMOST IT'S IT'S ALMOST
LIKE YOU KNOW, CAN WE
INCENTIVIZE POLICE TO
DE-ESCALATE AND TO WALK AWAY
WITHOUT AN INCIDENT LIKE THAT
BE VERY VALUABLE RIGHT.
BECAUSE I DON'T THINK REALLY
HELPS ANYONE TO HANDCUFF AND
TAKE SOMEONE IN AS THEY I MEAN
THIS PERSON IS OBVIOUSLY
STRUGGLING AS MUCH MONEY AND
THEN YOU JUST GET REALLY BEHIND
THE EIGHT BALL ONCE YOU'RE
ARRESTED AND THEN YOU HAVE, YOU
KNOW, JUST SNOWBALLS.
YEAH, BUT I THINK MAYBE IT'S
SIMILAR ORDINANCE.
IT COULD BE CREATED THE THE THE
OTHER ALSO IS IS THE THE
COMPLAINT CAME FROM THE BROTHER
AND INDICATED THAT THIS
GENTLEMAN HAS SOME MENTAL
ISSUES SOME HANDICAP WOULD SAY
AND I THINK IF WE LOOK AT
HANDICAPPED IS ANY PHYSICAL
APPEARANCE OF SOMEBODY WHO HAS
SOMETHING THAT YOU CAN SEE
MENTALLY YOU CANNOT YOU CANNOT
JUDGE.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT MAYBE
WE CAN WE CAN RECOMMEND TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT TO HAVE SOME
OVERTRAIN IDENTIFYING
INDIVIDUALS WHO MIGHT BE NOT
JUST PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED
ALSO BUT ALSO SOME MIGHT HAVE
SOME MENTAL ISSUES WHETHER IT'S
BECAUSE OF LOTS OF REASONS AND
HOW YOU DEAL WITH THOSE
INDIVIDUALS DIFFERENTLY THAN
DEALING INDIVIDUAL WHO IS
NORMAL AND BEHAVIOR SOMEHOW WE
CAN DISTINGUISH BETWEEN THE TWO
TO THE POINT THAT WE ARE NOT
REALLY TAKING THINGS BEYOND THE
DIRECTION OF THE LIMITS OF THE
ACTION.
SO I THINK I THINK WE WE
PROBABLY WOULD RECOMMEND
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> BUT I SAID THAT IT'S GOING
TO TAKE TEN MINUTES AND I
APPRECIATE THE INPUT.
I THINK THIS IS INTERESTING
WHEN WE LOOK AT AN ACTUAL
COMPLAINT THAT WE HAD AND WE
CAN LOOK AT IT AS AN
INFORMATION MANAGER, WE CAN
LOOK AT IT AS CITIZEN AND SEE
DIFFERENT THINGS AND I THINK AS
WE LOOK AT CASES LIKE THIS AND
MAYBE THERE'S THIS DOES THIS
MAKE SENSE TO BRING A CASE TO
THE TO THE COMMISSION AND WE
TALK ABOUT THESE KINDS
OF THINGS WHEN WE DO OUR ANNUAL
REPORT WE WILL MAKE
RECOMMENDATIONS.
>> BUT I'M GOING TO ASK THE
POLICY COMMITTEE IS THERE A
POLICY ABOUT DE-ESCALATION?
IS THERE A POLICY ABOUT
HANDCUFFING?
AND LET'S WHEN WE CAN TALK
ABOUT THAT AND THE TRAINING DID
DID THE TRAINING DID YOU OR DID
YOU ALL SEE THE EMAIL THAT I
SENT TODAY?
NO, IT WAS AN EMAIL ABOUT
POSSIBLE TO GET TOGETHER.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING
WE'RE GOING
TO TALK ABOUT.
YOU KNOW, IS THERE ARE OFFICERS
TRAINED ON DE-ESCALATION AND SO
IT'S THIS THIS GETS US STARTED.
I APPRECIATE THE INPUT.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
>> I'M SORRY, COUNCILPERSON
HARRISON.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT IS AT
THE TOP OF MIND FOR ME WHEN I
THINK ABOUT POLICE THIS IS
DIFFERENT BY UNNECESSARY POLICE
CONTACT WITH RESIDENTS AND JUST
INDIVIDUALS ON THE STREET.
I THINK ABOUT ELIJAH MCCLAIN.
SO ARE YOU I DON'T YOU'RE ALL
FAMILIAR.
HE'S TWENTY THREE YEAR OLD WHO
IS LEAVING THE STORE AND YOU
KNOW THIS WALKING DOWN THE
STREET HE WAS KILLED.
SO IN REFERENCE TO LIKE YOU
MENTIONED, THE DRIVER
INEQUALITY ORDINANCE.
IS THERE SOMETHING THAT COULD
BE LOOKED AT FOR?
IT IS SOMETHING I HAVE THOUGHT
ABOUT FOR A LONG TIME.
UM, THAT STORY I MEAN THERE'S
MANY BUT THAT ONE WRECKS ME.
IT WRECKS IT WRECKS ME EVERY
TIME AND ACTUALLY I THINK THE
SECOND OFFICER JUST WAS
ACQUITTED I BELIEVE JUST JUST
RECENTLY FOUND NOT GUILTY.
SO YEAH.
IF YOU'RE NOT FAMILIAR WITH THE
STORY, YOU KNOW, TAKE A LOOK AT
IT BUT IT IS DEFINITELY WORTH
LOOKING INTO.
OK, YOU KNOW.
>> ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
UM, THIS PAST SESSION
LEGISLATIVE SESSION THAT ENDED
ABOUT TWO WEEKS AGO, THERE'S A
GROUP OF STATE LEGISLATORS WHO
HAD BEEN TRYING REALLY HARD TO
INTRODUCE SOME BILLS A BILL
PACKAGE, THE POLICING
IMPROVEMENT BILL PACKAGE TO
COMMITTEE THAT SOUNDS LIKE ONCE
THE LEGISLATURE CONVENES IN THE
YEAR THEY'LL ACTUALLY START TO
GET SOME MOVEMENT AROUND IT
THIS IS ONE OF THE ONE OF THE
BILLS THAT SENATOR HAS BEEN
TRYING TO INTRODUCE IS ONE ON
TRAINING IMPROVEMENTS THAT
WOULD REQUIRE IMHOLZ TO IN
CONSULTATION WITH BEHAVIORAL
HEALTH EXPERTS ESTABLISH
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR TRAINING
BY OCTOBER 1ST.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR IN
DE-ESCALATION TACTICS, IMPLICIT
BIAS PROCEDURAL JUSTICE CRISIS
RESPONSE TECHNIQUES WITH
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH RESOURCES AND
SUPPORT FOR INDIVIDUALS IN THE
STATE INCLUDING LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS.
SO THERE'S INTEREST IN ACTUALLY
TRYING TO SEE IF WE CAN USE A
SCENARIO AS AN EXAMPLE FOR US
TO MOTIVATE OUR LEGISLATORS TO
MAKE SURE THAT THERE ARE
RESOURCES AVAILABLE FOR THIS
KIND OF TRAINING FOR OFFICERS
HOPE MAYBE THAT CAN GET SOME
LEGS ON GETTING THIS HEARD IN
COMMITTEE AND IN THE NEW YEAR.
LET'S JEFF JEFF ERWIN GOOD.
THANK THANK YOU.
>> OK, SO WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ALONG.
THAT IS PRETTY MUCH EVERYTHING
THAT I HAD.
LET ME GO QUICKLY BECAUSE I
KNOW WE DO WANT TO GET TO THE
ACTUAL COMPLAINT PROCESS.
>> SO TRAINING COMMITTEE DO YOU
HAVE WHERE ARE WE WE NEED TO
APPROVE THE CALENDAR SO UNDER
BUSINESS WE NEED TO APPROVE THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE COMMISSION
CALENDAR ALL EVERYONE HAS THAT
IN THEIR PACKAGE IS THIS
MEETING NOTICE THOSE ARE ALL
THE DATES I SKIPPED OVER ALL OK
ALL BUSINESS NEW BUSINESS THIS
ALL RIGHT WHERE AM I THERE THIS
IS RIGHT WELL THAT'S OCTOBER OK
YOU ARE REPORTING THIS YEAR IS
THERE ANY OLD BUSINESS.
THANK YOU.
ANY NEW BUSINESS I KNOW WE
DON'T HAVE A NEW BUSINESS BUT
WE HAVE NOT HAD ANY VICE
CHAIRMAN.
TRUE.
AND I BELIEVE THAT THAT WAS
STABLE WE BACK AND I THINK IT'S
PROBABLY BE TIME TO VOTE FOR
IT.
LAST YEAR I RUNNING I KNOW
BECAUSE I ASKED YOU EVERYTHING
THAT'S AN ISSUE.
>> WHY DON'T WE PUT IT ON THE
CALENDAR FOR JANUARY?
IT WOULD BE FINE AND I KNOW
I'VE MADE THIS ANNOUNCEMENT
BEFORE IF ANYONE IS INTERESTED
IN THE POSITION OF VICE CHAIR
PLEASE LET US KNOW WHEN WE PUT
LET'S PUT IT ON THE AGENDA
FORWARD FOR OUR MEETING IN
JANUARY.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
OK, NEW BUSINESS.
WE NEED TO APPROVE THE CALENDAR
.
THE CALENDAR IS IN YOUR PACKET
NOW WHAT I'D LIKE TO CHANGE
BEFORE DO ANYTHING OK?
IF YOU LOOK AT THE CALENDAR
YOU'LL SEE FOR THE FEBRUARY
MEETING THE MEETING IS
SCHEDULED FOR FEBRUARY TWENTY
SEVEN.
THAT IS AN ELECTION PRIMARY.
SO THE COMMISSION HAS THE
OPTION TONIGHT TO CANCEL THAT
MEETING OR TO RESCHEDULE THAT
MEETING FOR A DIFFERENT DAY OR
TWO.
STILL HOLD THE MEETING.
HOWEVER, THAT IS AN ELECTION
PRIMARY.
SO I DO WANT TO MAKE EVERYONE
AWARE OF THAT.
WILL ANYTHING BE GOING ON HERE
IN THE COUNCIL CHAMBERS, THE
COUNTING AND ALL THE WHAT'S
YOUR PLEASURE?
>> I'D HATE TO JUST CANCEL THE
MEETING.
MAYBE WE CAN DISCUSS RESCARE.
CAN WE HAVE IT LIKE A WEEK
BEFORE THE TO THE THIRD TUESDAY
OF FEBRUARY FOUR FOR ONE FOR
THAT MEETING IF YOU ORDER ONE
THE TWENTY I'M JUST OK AND THEN
YOU CAN MAKE OF WELL THE CHANGE
I WAS GOING I MEAN WE REALLY
DIDN'T CANCEL THE MEETINGS WE
JUST DON'T HAVE MEETING YET.
IT IS IS THIS I KNOW WELL WE
DON'T WANT IT TO SAY CANCELED
WE DON'T WANT IT TO APPEAR THAT
WE'RE CANCELING OUR MEETINGS.
THERE'S JUST NO MEETING
SCHEDULED.
YEAH.
SO CAN WE MAKE THAT CHANGE?
I.
OK, THANK YOU
I WE'LL THAT THE
SORRY JUST MY COMMENTS JUST
CHECKING TO SEE IF WE CAN HAVE
OUR MEETING ON THE THIRD
TUESDAY IN FEBRUARY.
>> YEAH.
SO IT LOOKS LIKE COUNCIL
CHAMBERS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR
THAT.
OK SO DON'T CHANGE IT TO OK AT
THE SAME TIME SAME TIME GO
AHEAD COMMISSIONER MILGROM I
MOVE THAT WE WE APPROVE THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR CALENDAR IS
JUST AMENDED OK AND THE
AMENDMENTS ARE THAT FEBRUARY
MEETING WILL BE ON THE
TWENTIETH AND THAT WE ARE
ASKING THAT RATHER THAN THE
CALENDAR SAY THAT OUR MEETINGS
ARE CANCELED THIS DISENROLL
MEETING SCHEDULED FOR JULY AND
AUGUST, JULY, AUGUST AND
DECEMBER.
>> OK, IS THERE A SECOND TO
THAT MOTION FOR ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR BY ANY
OPPOSED THE MOTION PASSES?
ALL RIGHT.
NOW THAT I'VE GOT EVERYTHING
GOING HERE NOW WE'RE ON TO
REPORTS FROM THE COMMITTEES
POLICY COMMITTEE AND REPORT.
SO I WOULD JUST BRIEFLY SAY YOU
WE WENT THROUGH THAT SCENARIO.
I WAS ANSWERING THE QUESTION AS
THE CHAIR OF THE OF THE POLICY
COMMITTEE BECAUSE I ALREADY WAS
JUST THINKING ABOUT IN TERMS
OF POLICY.
SO I CERTAINLY APPRECIATE THE
COMMENTS THAT COMMISSIONER WAS
MAKING ABOUT PUTTING IT IN A
BROADER CONTEXT.
SO I WAS A LITTLE I ACTUALLY
EXPECTED WHEN I JUST TOOK A
BRIEF LOOK TO FIND FIND
SOMETHING GERMANE AND I AND I
HAVE IT AGAIN I'M NOT SAYING
THAT THERE IS NO POLICY BUT IT
IS A FIRST PLACE TO START THINK
YOU KNOW I MEAN AND TRAINING IS
NECESSARY AND CIRCUMSTANCES AND
SOMETIMES, YOU KNOW, POLICIES
YOU KNOW, YOU NEED SOME LEEWAY
WITHIN WITHIN CERTAIN POLICIES
DEPENDING ON THE ON THE
CIRCUMSTANCES.
SO SO I HAVE SOME WORK TO DO TO
TAKE A LOOK AT THAT AND THEN TO
TALK TO SOME FOLKS TO SEE IF
I'M MISSING SOMETHING AND AND
WE CAN GO FROM THERE.
THE ONLY OTHER UPDATE I'D HAVE
ON ON OUR POLICY COMMITTEE IS
JUST THAT I WANT TO THANK
COMMISSIONER GREENE FOR JOINING
ME.
WE'VE SPLIT UP WE SPLIT UP THE
WORK IN TERMS OF TAKING A LOOK
AT ALL OF THE POLICIES.
SO I'VE GOT I DON'T KNOW SOME
TWO THIRDS AT THE MOMENT I
THINK AND MAYBE LESS WE SHOULD
AGREE HE'S GOT THE REST AND I
DON'T KNOW COMMISSIONER GREEN
HAS ANYTHING HE WANTS TO ADD TO
THAT BUT OTHERWISE THAT'S
THAT'S MY REPORT FOR THIS MONTH
.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD,
COMMISSIONER GREEN?
NO.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
NEXT IS THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE
AND WE HAVE OUR NOTES FROM THE
OUTREACH COMMITTEE.
MR. GRAY WHO OK, SO I'LL START
FOCUSED NOW I MISSED HIM OK?
I'M SORRY I DID IT AGAIN.
TRAINING COMMITTEE.
I KNOW WE HAVEN'T MET YET SO
THERE'S THERE'S NO MEET THERE'S
NO NO UPDATE FROM THE TRAINING
COMMITTEE AS OF YET WE'RE
HOPING TO SCHEDULE A MEETING
WITHIN THE NEXT WEEK OR SO.
GO AHEAD.
OK, SO COMMISSIONER MARABA AND
I MET A WHILE AGO NOW AND THIS
WAS OUR FIRST MEETING TOGETHER.
>> SO WE WE OUTLINED SOME
OF OUR GOALS
AND SOME QUESTIONS
THAT WE HAD AS WELL BECAUSE WE
WERE BOTH GETTING UP TO SPEED.
SO YOU HAVE THE NOTES IN FRONT
OF YOU.
I'M NOT GOING TO READ ALL
OF THEM.
I'M SURE YOU COULD READ THEM
EASILY.
BUT BASICALLY I THINK WE'RE
CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT OUTREACH
EVENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE OR ARE
IN THE WORKS FOR BOTH THE CITY
AND THE POLICE TO SEE IF WE CAN
HELP OR JOIN OR YOU KNOW, WORK
IN TANDEM BUT ALSO, YOU KNOW,
DEVELOPING OUR OWN AND I THINK
WE HAVE IDENTIFIED THAT
COMMUNICATION IS KEY HERE.
WE WANT PEOPLE AND THE
COMMUNITY TO KNOW THAT IT
EXISTS AND THAT WE ARE HERE TO
SERVE AND THAT THEY ARE WELCOME
TO COME IN WITH COMPLAINTS AND
THEY'LL BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY.
WE ALSO WANT TO GET TO KNOW THE
COMMUNITY A BIT BETTER SO YOU
KNOW, MORE COMMUNITY EVENTS,
FORMAL AND MAYBE EVEN INFORMAL
,YOU KNOW, GOING DOWN I
SUGGESTED AND IS A PASSION
PROJECT THAT YOU'LL HEAR ABOUT
MORE OFTEN FROM ME.
I'M SURE IT'S JUST GOING DOWN
TO WEST PARK AND TALKING TO
FOLKS.
I THINK LISTENING IS GOING TO
BE A BIG PART OF OUR OUTREACH
SO ONE OF OUR IDEAS WAS, YOU
KNOW, SITTING DOWN WITH FOLKS
IN THE COMMUNITY SITTING DOWN
WITH POLICE OFFICERS AS WELL
AND ASKING ABOUT CONCERNS OR
QUESTIONS OR FEARS OR HOPES AND
THEN PRESENTING THAT
INFORMATION TO THE COMMUNITY TO
MAKE IT PUBLIC SO THAT WE CAN
START TO UNDERSTAND EACH OTHER
A BIT BETTER AGAIN BECAUSE I
THINK A LOT OF THESE SITUATIONS
ARE BASED IN FEAR MISANDRIST
STANDING YOU KNOW, NOT ALL
OF THEM BUT SOME AND IF WE CAN
HELP WITH THAT A LITTLE BIT,
WE'D LIKE TO WE ALSO WANT TO
GET MORE INVOLVED WITH THE
SCHOOLS BECAUSE THAT WAS
SOMETHING THAT I THINK
SURPRISED BOTH OF US AND I
THINK, YOU KNOW, WE'RE TRYING
TO BE PROACTIVE HERE AND NOT
REACTIVE AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
SO WHATEVER WE CAN DO TO BUILD
OR MEND RELATIONSHIPS WE WANT
TO BE A PART OF THAT.
WE DID HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT
SOCIAL MEDIA BUT KENNEDY
ANSWERED IT VERY QUICKLY FOR
US.
SO WE DO KNOW THAT WE HAVE
SOCIAL MEDIA.
WE WOULD LIKE TO UTILIZE IT.
MAYBE THAT'S A GREAT TASK FOR
THE YOUTH COMMISSIONER ONCE WE
HAVE ONE BECAUSE I'M NOT GREAT
AT IT.
MAYBE SOMEBODY ELSE IS I'M NOT
YOUTHFUL ENOUGH FOR THAT TASK.
>> I THINK THERE.
DID YOU HAVE ANYTHING?
NO, YOU DID OR YOU DID A GREAT
JOB.
SO I THINK IN SOME WAYS WE HAD
OUR FIRST MEETING OR WE DUMPED
EVERYTHING OUT THERE.
WE PROBABLY NEED TO GET SOME
FEEDBACK FROM THE WHOLE
COMMISSION AND ABOUT SOME IDEAS
AND I THINK WE'LL GET BACK TO
THE PRIORITIES AND START DOING
SOME STUFF SO THANK YOU VERY
MUCH WITH REGARD TO THE
SCHOOLS, LET ME JUST SAY THIS.
YOU KNOW, I THINK AFTER GEORGE
FLOYDS MURDER THE THE THE THERE
WAS A SENSE THAT THEY DIDN'T
WANT THE POLICE AROUND IN THE
SCHOOLS AND THAT WAS THE
RESOURCE OFFICERS THAT WAS
ANYTHING TO DO WITH WITH THE
POLICE.
>> I HAD LUNCH MEETING WITH ONE
OF THE SCHOOL BOARD MEMBERS TO
START THIS CONVERSATION ABOUT
US GETTING BACK INTO THE
SCHOOLS AT LEAST FOR CAREER DAY
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT BECAUSE
AS I UNDERSTAND IT NOW THEY
DON'T WANT OFFICERS IN FOR
CAREER DAY AND WHAT I WAS TOLD
AND ADVISED BECAUSE OF WHAT'S
GOING ON WITH THEIR GETTING A
NEW SUPERINTENDENT AND IT WAS A
TURNOVER AND ALL THAT HAPPENING
THAT MAYBE WE SHOULD WAIT UNTIL
THE NEW SUPERINTENDENT IS IN
AND GET THEIR FEET WET.
AND SO I BUT I THINK THAT'S AN
EXCELLENT YOU KNOW, IF WE CAN
DO THAT I I HAVE A QUESTION TO
AN WHAT DO YOU NEED WHAT DO YOU
THINK WE NEED MAYBE THIS IS
SOMETHING YOU NEED TO TALK
ABOUT.
>> WHAT DO YOU NEED FOR US TO I
MEAN IS IT GOING TO BE LIKE AN
EXTRA DAY AT THE PARK?
I MEAN WHAT WHAT DO YOU WHAT DO
YOU NEED IN TERMS OF OF
OF DOING THESE THINGS THAT YOU
THAT YOU HAVE IDEAS FOR?
>> SO ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS FROM I
THINK SAFETY TONE IS REALLY IS
A IS THE PROGRAM THAT'S BEEN
LONGSTANDING AND AND AND THAT
CHILDREN ENTERING INTO PUBLIC
SCHOOLS YOU LIMIT OR A NUMBER
OF FAMILIES I THINK LOOK TO YOU
AS BEING KIND OF THE FIRST
POINT OF CONTACT BEFORE
ENTERING PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF OUR FOLKS
FAMILIAR WITH THIS PROGRAM IF
YOU'RE AN INCOMING
KINDERGARTNER YOU CAN SIGN UP
FOR SAFETY AND OUR POLICE OUR
FIRE DEPARTMENT IS INVOLVED
WITH THIS AND IT'S JUST KIND
OF LIKE BASICS OF YOUR HOME
ALONE HOW TO CROSS THE STREET,
WEAR HELMETS, COAL MINE ONE ONE
I THINK IT'S LIKE A WEEK LONG
DECAF.
YES.
MY I JUST I HAVE NEWLY MINTED
EIGHTEEN YEAR OLD SON.
I'M REALLY HAPPY TO REACH BACK
A LITTLE BIT ON THIS BUT THAT
MIGHT BE A PROGRAM THAT YOU CAN
SPEAK TO IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
VERSUS KIND OF MAKING THIS JUMP
TO YOU KNOW LIKE SAFETY
RESOURCE OFFICERS IS LEARNING A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THAT BECAUSE I
KNOW THERE IS ONE OF OUR
OFFICERS HAD RETIRED.
HE WAS A LONG STANDING STAFF ON
THAT PROGRAM.
THEY'LL HAVE TO MAYBE YES.
OFFICER MURDY THAT'S THE ONLY
EFFORT I THINK THAT I THINK
THAT'S LIKE A COMMON EXPERIENCE
ACROSS THE TOWN ACROSS TOWN
WITH KIDS COMING INTO PUBLIC
SCHOOLS UNDERSTANDING HOW A
STUDENT YOU KNOW HOW TO WHAT IS
NINE ON ONE HOW TO CALL NINE
ONE ONE ACTUALLY I THINK THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE LIKE TO RIGHT.
LIKE WHAT IS THE HOUSE FIRE
LIKE AND HOW TO PREVENT HOUSE
FIRES.
SO AN OUTREACH EFFORT THAT'S
THAT'S LONGSTANDING AND
TRADITIONAL THAT YOU MIGHT WANT
TO LOOK INTO.
>> OK, WELL WE'RE WE'RE WE'RE
WORKING ON IT.
I APPRECIATE YOUR EFFORTS AND
LET US KNOW WHAT YOU COME UP
WITH, WHAT WE CAN DO, WHAT YOU
NEED.
BE GOOD.
OK NOW WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON
TO THE INFORMATION MANAGERS
COMMITTEE REPORT AND FIND OUT
MORE ABOUT THE COMPLAINT
PROCESS.
COMMISSIONER OFMAN
SO WHAT I
HAVE OVER HERE IS IS A DRAFT
OF FLOWCHART OF COMPLAINTS
INVESTIGATION AND THINGS WERE
REALLY SCATTERED.
WE DID NOT HAVE THEM ORGANIZED
.
>> YEAH, I'M SORRY.
CAN I I'M GOING TO ASK YOU TO
HOLD ON ONE SECOND.
LET'S TAKE ABOUT A THREE MINUTE
BREAK.
WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF COMMISSIONERS WHO HAVE
STEPPED AWAY FROM THE TABLE AND
LET'S SEE IF WE CAN TAKE ABOUT
A TWO MINUTE BREAK AND TELL
EVERYBODY ELSE GETS BACK AND
THEN AND THEN WE'LL START I'D
HATE FOR THE FRONT.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
>> MEANWHILE YOU'VE GOT
SO WHY
DON'T I THIS WAS WORTH
ADJECTIVES OR OK THAT'S GOOD.
BUT I THINK WE CAN WORK
TOGETHER ON THOSE ONES.
OK OK.
AND SEE THAT MOST OF THE STUFF
IS THE FIRST ENCOUNTER YOU HAVE
YOU HAVE WITH THE
UNPROFESSIONAL I MEAN IS IT
GOOD IT SEEMS CLEAR FROM
DELEGATIONS OK AND THEN YOU
HAVE THAT YEAH I WAS TRYING TO
HIDE IT BECAUSE ZOROASTER
PROFILE OH YEAH THEY'RE GOOD
INCOMPLETE INVENTORY NO RECEIPT
FOR CONFISCATED GUNS N WHATEVER
YOU LIKE.
CAN I FIND FALSE INFORMATION TO
OUT WHAT THEY CAN PULL.
NO THEY WANT ORDER TO GIVE YOU
THE ADDRESS AND THAT IS IS THIS
MINE.
I WILL SEND YOU YOUR NAME WITH
THIS BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
BECAUSE I NOT WORTH SO THEY CAN
HAVE US ON ANOTHER FAKE
PASSPORT WHEN THEY ARE GOING TO
TELL US HOW MANY CASES RIGHT.
WE HAD UNDERSTOOD EXACTLY
EXACTLY.
AND AND THAT'S PART IF WE CAN
GET A NEW CASE MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM OK HERE WE ARE.
OK WELL THEY'RE ALL RIGHT IN
YOUR FACE.
>> OH OK OK OK THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THAT WAS A NEEDED BREAK AT THE
END BEFORE I WANT TO BACK UP
BEFORE WE GET TO THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS COME FOR A
COMPLAINT PRESENTATION I WANT
TO BACK UP TO NEW BUSINESS VERY
QUICKLY AND COMMISSIONER OFMAN
POINTED THIS OUT TO ME THAT AS
WE TALK ABOUT OUR COMMITTEES
THERE WAS A COMMITTEE THAT WE
PREVIOUSLY HAD THAT WE NO
LONGER I GUESS IT DOESN'T
FUNCTION.
WE JUST I DON'T KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED.
WE HAD A PERSONNEL COMMITTEE
AND THAT COMMITTEE WE TALK
ABOUT ELECTING A VICE PRESIDENT
,VICE PRESIDENT, VICE CHAIR
THAT WOULD COME THROUGH THE
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE SETTING UP
INTERVIEWS FOR NEW
COMMISSIONERS AND SO FORTH
WOULD COME THROUGH THE
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE.
>> SO I WANT TO MOVE THAT WE
ADD TO OUR COMMITTEES A
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE AND I KNOW
THAT COMMISSIONER OFMAN AND
MYSELF WILL PREVIOUSLY ON THAT
COMMITTEE.
I'D LIKE TO APPOINT US AND IF
ANYONE ELSE WOULD LIKE TO
PARTICIPATE IN THAT COMMITTEE
YOU WANT TO THINK ABOUT IT AND
LET ME KNOW BUT SO I'M GOING TO
MOVE THAT WE ADD A PERSONNEL
COMMITTEE TO OUR TO OUR
COMMISSION COMMITTEES THAT I
HAVE A SECOND SECOND OK.
ANY DISCUSSION OK THEN I'M
GOING TO I'M GOING TO ASK FOR A
VOTE ALL IN FAVOR I ANY OPPOSED
OK THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
NOW WE'RE GOING TO GO BACK TO
THE BEGINNING WITH THE
INFORMATION MANAGER'S
PRESENTATION.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH.
SO WITH THE INFORMATION THAT WE
HAD THERE WAS NO COHESIVENESS
AND THERE WAS NOTHING OVER
THERE FOR THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS TO REALLY REFER TO
WHEN IT COMES TO REVIEWING THE
COMPLAINTS.
SO I JUST PUT TOGETHER SOME
KIND OF SLIDESHOW AS A DRAFT
THAT CAN BE CHANGED WITH TIME
BUT AT LEAST IT'S THERE WE CAN
REFERENCE WHENEVER WE HAVE ANY
CASES THAT ARE REACHING US FROM
EITHER COMPLAINTS OR FROM AFTER
A POLICE DOES THEIR
INVESTIGATION AND PROVIDING US
WITH THE MATERIAL NEEDED FOR
THIS.
SO AS INFORMATION MANAGER IS
WHAT YOU HAVE IS THE FIRST
MANAGER SUBCOMMITTEE IS PART
OF A PARK AND CHAIRED BY ONE
SENIOR MEMBER.
I THINK ONE CAN REMOVE THE
SENIOR ONE OR TWO AND FROM
MANAGERS MANAGER'S REVIEW
ASSIGN COMPLAINTS CHAIR WILL
REVIEW ALL THE COMPLAINTS.
REGULAR SUBCOMMITTEE MEETINGS
ARE SCHEDULED TO DISCUSS
PROGRESS OF THE COMPLAINTS
CHAIR AND INFORMATION MANAGER
WILL GENERATE AND DISCUSS THE
REPORTS PRIOR TO PRESENTING
THEM TO BACK UP ON APPROVAL
OF THE REPORTS THEY WOULD BE
SENT TO AP.
THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATOR AND THE
COMPLAINANTS.
EACH INFORMATION MANAGER SHOULD
HAVE A CITY EMAIL ADDRESS AT
ITU GOV DOT ORG TO ACCESS
INFORMATION AND HAVE A SECURE
EMAIL FOR REVIEWING THE
COMPLAINTS WE CAN HAVE THAT AS
YOUR REGULAR MAIL APV SEND
VIDEOS VIA ATKESON SOMETIMES I
THINK IF WE GET THINGS CHANGED
THIS MIGHT CHANGE TOO.
BUT THE VIDEOS IS THAT WE GET
FROM THE BODY CAMERAS OR
DASHBOARD CAMERAS.
THEY ARE COMING TO US VIKSUND
BECAUSE THIS IS A COMPANY THAT
PROVIDES THE MACHINES OR
CAMERAS TO THE POLICE AND
INFORMATION MANAGER SHOULD HAVE
A LOG IN TO EVIDENCE THAT COM
USING YOUR SET EMAIL TO ACCESS
THE VIDEO AND LOGIN IS A BIT
DIFFERENT THAN YOUR PASSWORD
THAT YOU ACCESS YOUR CITY EMAIL
IF YOU DO WILL BE POSTED FOR
SIXTY DAYS.
ACCESS CAN BE EXTENDED OR IF
NEEDED CAN BE REPOSTED BY AP
AND THOSE THINGS IF WE HAVE ANY
ANY ISSUES WITH THAT.
MR. CUMMINGS CAN BE OUR LIAISON
AND SHE CAN CONTACT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT SO WE CAN REPOST
THOSE VIDEOS SOMETIMES YOU KNOW
YOU HAVE A CASE AND YOU HAVE
UPDATE TO THE CASE IN A FEW
MONTHS LATER SO WE CAN GO BACK
AND LOOK AT THE VIDEOS AGAIN IN
CASE YOU NEED ANY HELP, MR.
CUMMINGS CAN ASSIST YOU WITH
THAT.
>> COMPLAINTS COME TO US
THROUGH EITHER LAPD INDIVIDUALS
DIRECTLY CONTACT LAPD OR
THROUGH MEGABUCK AND COMPLAINTS
SOMETIMES COME FROM THE
CITIZENS THEMSELVES THAT HAVE
AN ENCOUNTER WITH THE POLICE OR
SOMETIMES THEY COME FROM
RELATIVES, FROM COWORKERS, FROM
SOMEBODY WHO WAS WORKING
SOMEPLACE THAT THEY SAY THEY
SAW SOMETHING THAT DID NOT LIKE
OR BYSTANDER.
SOMETIMES THESE COMPLAINTS ARE
COMING TO US THAT WAY.
MOST OF THE COMPLAINTS ARE
COMING FROM INDIVIDUALS WHO
HAVE FIRSTHAND ENCOUNTER WITH
THE POLICE
.
>> THE COMPLAINTS WHEN THEY GO
TO THE APD THEY DO THEIR
INVESTIGATIONS.
THEY HAVE THE COMPLAINTS, THE
OFFICERS INTERVIEWS SUMMARY
OF THEIR INVESTIGATION AND
DISPOSITION
.
APD PROVIDE CLERK WITH THEIR
COMPLETE INVESTIGATIONS.
THEY GIVE US THE MATERIAL
PROVIDED INCLUDE THE COMPLAINTS
OFFICERS INVESTIGATION SUMMARY
OF INVESTIGATION DISPOSITIONS
AND INCIDENTS VIDEOS AVAILABLE
APD PROVIDE THE CLERK SUMMARY
TO GET US A SUMMARY A MONTHLY
SUMMARY OF PERSONNEL COMPLAINTS
WITH NO
DATE OF THE INCIDENT
THE TYPE EMPLOYEE OR OFFICERS
INVOLVED COMPLAINT WITH
ALLEGATIONS AND DISPOSITION.
THIS IS SOME KIND OF LIKE AN
FLIGHT WE USED TO GET FROM THEM
.
OK, SO WHAT WE DO AS
INFORMATION MANAGERS WHEN WE
REVIEW THE COMPLAINTS
INFORMATION MANAGERS REVIEW
OF THE COMPLAINTS WITH ALL THE
SUPPORTING INFORMATION EVIDENCE
EACH COMPLAINT IS REVIEWED BY
AT LEAST ONE INFORMATION
MANAGER AND THE CHAIR
INFORMATION MANAGER AND
GENERATE A REPORT FOR EACH
COMPLAINT.
THE REPORT WILL HAVE THE
COMPLAINT YES NO DATE
OF INCIDENT EMPLOYEE OFFICER OR
OFFICERS INVOLVED ALLEGATIONS
AND APD DISPOSITION REPORT WILL
INCLUDE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS
RECOMMENDATIONS WILL BE SHARED
WITH THE AP.
THE POLICE CHIEF OR THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
THE REPORT OF AN LETTER WILL BE
SHARED WITH THE COMPLAINANTS
AND THERE ARE JUST LOOKING AT
THE THE INVESTIGATIONS, THE
REVIEWS.
WE HAVE TWO TYPES
OF RECOMMENDATIONS
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT ARE
SPECIFIC TO EACH COMPLAINT AND
ARE RECOMMENDATIONS THAT ARE
GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS BASED
ON THE THEMES OF ALLEGATIONS
AND REVIEWS OF THE INCIDENTS.
SOMETIMES YOU WE MIGHT HAVE
SOMETHING IS SO SIMILAR OR
OCCURRED IN MORE THAN ONE CASE
.
SO THIS IS A KIND OF A THEME
THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE A
RECOMMENDATION AND ONE OF THE
THINGS IS ANY TIME AS AS AN
EXAMPLE AND WHICH IS WHICH IS
TO RECOMMENDATION IS ANY TIME A
POLICE OFFICER IS OUT ON PATROL
THEY HAVE TO HAVE THEIR BODY
BORNE CAMERA.
WHY?
BECAUSE IT'S FOR THE SAFETY
OF OF THE OFFICER FOR THE THE
THE THE TRUE ARE ENCOUNTER THE
INFORMATION THAT IS GOING TO BE
AVAILABLE FOR REVIEW AND AND IF
THERE'S AN INCIDENT WHERE THERE
IS NO BODY CAMERA VIDEO, I
WOULD AS AS INFORMATION MANAGER
I WOULD HAVE TO SAY IT'S
INCONCLUSIVE.
I CAN'T I CAN'T VOUCH FOR
EITHER OR SO SO HAVING THE
VIDEO AVAILABLE FOR US IS
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN BUILD OUR
OUR REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATIONS
BASED ON RELATIVELY MORE
INFORMATION THE MORE
INFORMATION WE HAVE THE BETTER
OUR REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATIONS
WOULD BE.
SO THIS IS GOING TO BE A
GENERAL THEME AND ONE THING
THAT IS INVOLVED OVER HERE WITH
THE ON CAMERA IS THERE IS COST
INVOLVED.
SO SO WE NEED WE NEED WE NEED
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT TO HAVE
THE BUDGET TO MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYONE WHO IS OUT ON PATROL
BECAUSE YOU MIGHT BE JUST
WALKING MAYBE JUST GOING OUT
FOR HAVING A CUP OF COFFEE AND
THEN YOU ARE COLD.
THERE IS AN INCIDENT OR
SOMETHING AND YOU GO AND YOU
ARE THE PERSON WHO IS NEAR THE
INCIDENT.
SO WHEN YOU HAVE MORE ON CAMERA
IT'S IT'S IT'S REPRESENTS THE
SITUATION ITSELF.
IT'S NOT JUST A MATTER OF I
SAID HE SAID ALSO SO THAT WOULD
BE A PROOF FOR US TO CONSIDER
WHEN WE ARE HAVING OUR REVIEW
AND EVALUATIONS.
I THINK THAT MIGHT BE THE LET'S
JUST PUT ALL THESE THINGS
TOGETHER AND ANYONE IN THE
FUTURE WHO IS GOING TO BE AS
INFORMATION MANAGER WOULD NOT
WANT TO REINVENT THE WHEEL.
SO IF YOU THINK THINGS ARE
GOING TO BE AVAILABLE FOR ALL
OF US TO USE VERY GOOD VERY
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
NOW THERE ARE THERE ARE SOME
DOCUMENTS THAT WE NEED YOUR
APPROVAL.
WE'VE ACTUALLY STARTED ALREADY
USING A ONE WITH THE BLANKS ON
IT TO FILL IN.
THIS IS THIS IS ALREADY IN IN
USE.
WELL, WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
THAT APPROVED AND I GUESS WE'LL
WE CALL THAT IS THERE A NAME
FOR THIS
THIS ONE?
OK, SO EVERYBODY SEE THE IG
COMPLAINT AND THEN IT HAS THE
IT WILL HAVE THE COMPLAINT NO
SUMMARY FINDING LETTER SO LET'S
DO THEM ALL ALL TOGETHER AND
THEN YOU HAVE
THIS OK THERE'S
ONE THAT SAYS THE ANN ARBOR
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION HAS
RECEIVED AND REVIEWED YOUR
COMPLAINT.
I I WANTED TO AND I KNOW THIS
COMMITTEE IS GOING TO SAY WHY
DIDN'T YOU TELL ME ALREADY SOME
OF OUR COMPLAINTS ARE MORE THAN
A YEAR OLD THAT WE ARE JUST
GETTING AROUND TO SENDING OUT
THE LETTER.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO INSERT THIS
THE FOLLOWING INITIALLY WE KNOW
THAT YOUR COMPLAINT WAS FILED
SOME TIME AGO.
WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE DELAY IN
PROVIDING THIS RESPONSE LETTER
AND THEN GO INTO THE THE LETTER
IT IS ANYBODY SEE WHERE I AM
AND WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT?
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
WE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT WE ARE LATE
AND SOMETIMES IT'S LATE BECAUSE
OF LOTS OF REASONS.
>> RIGHT.
AND THAT'S WHY I DIDN'T EVEN
WANT TO PUT A REASON.
BUT THAT DOES NOT MEAN THAT WE
ARE NOT ACKNOWLEDGING THAT WE
ARE BEHIND AND IT'S NOT LIKE WE
IGNORED THEM.
IT'S JUST A MATTER OF WE ARE
ACKNOWLEDGING THE DELAY AND WE
APOLOGIZE FOR THAT.
RIGHT.
AND THEN ALSO THANK YOU FOR
YOUR PATIENCE.
YEAH.
SO I WORK WITH MISS CUMINS.
SO WE'RE GOING TO WE'RE GOING
YEAH.
TO ASK FOR APPROVAL WITH THAT
SO WE'RE GOING TO WE'RE GOING
ADDITION TO THAT LETTER AND THE
TO ASK FOR APPROVAL WITH THAT
OTHER ONE IS THE LETTER THAT WE
ADDITION TO THAT LETTER AND THE
SEND OUT WHEN THE COMPLAINT IS
OTHER ONE IS THE LETTER THAT WE
FILED SO THAT THEY KNOW WE HAVE
SEND OUT WHEN THE COMPLAINT IS
THE THE COMPLAINT AND MORE OR
FILED SO THAT THEY KNOW WE HAVE
LESS EXPLAINS THE THE PROCESS.
THE THE COMPLAINT AND MORE OR
SO IF YOU'VE HAD A CHANCE TO
LESS EXPLAINS THE THE PROCESS.
LOOK AT THOSE, I'M GOING TO
SO IF YOU'VE HAD A CHANCE TO
MOVE THE APPROVAL OF THESE
LOOK AT THOSE, I'M GOING TO
THREE PIECES OF COMMUNICATION
MOVE THE APPROVAL OF THESE
TO GO OUT WITH REGARD TO OUR
THREE PIECES OF COMMUNICATION
COMPLAINT PROCESS.
TO GO OUT WITH REGARD TO OUR
NO, I'M NOT I'M GOING TO ASK
COMPLAINT PROCESS.
THEM I'M GOING TO ASK FOR A
NO, I'M NOT I'M GOING TO ASK
MOTION FOR APPROVAL.
THEM I'M GOING TO ASK FOR A
I'LL MAKE A MOTION THAT WE
MOTION FOR APPROVAL.
APPROVE THE THREE DOCUMENTS IS
I'LL MAKE A MOTION THAT WE
SUBMITTED TO CHANGE.
APPROVE THE THREE DOCUMENTS IS
THANK YOU.
SUBMITTED TO CHANGE.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND OK.
THANK YOU.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION IF NOT
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND OK.
ALL IN FAVOR PLEASE SIGNIFY BY
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION IF NOT
SAYING I OR YES I ANY OPPOSE.
ALL IN FAVOR PLEASE SIGNIFY BY
ALL RIGHT.
SAYING I OR YES I ANY OPPOSE.
THOSE ARE APPROVED.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH
.
WE ARE NOW AT THE POINT OF OUR
COUNCIL UPDATE I KNOW WE'VE
ALREADY HEARD FROM OUR COUNCIL
LIAISON BUT IF THERE'S ANYTHING
FURTHER DOWN THE PERSON SAW NO
,I'LL JUST I'LL JUST ADD THAT
I ATTENDED THERE WAS THE STATE
OF HOMELESSNESS EVENT AND THE
HOUSING ALLIANCE HAD HOSTED I
THINK WAS IT LAST WEEK AND
THERE IS A A REALLY CONCERNING
REPORT ON WE ARE HOMELESS
FAMILIES IS IS ALMOST DOUBLING
WITHIN THE COUNTY AND WE HAVE
VERY LIMITED HOUSING FOR
FAMILIES THIS LAST SEPTEMBER WE
HAD AND I BRING THIS UP BECAUSE
AS WE AS THE HOUSING CRISIS
WORSENS AND WE SEE MORE
EVICTIONS, IT JUST INCREASES
THE ODDS OF INTERACTION WITH
POLICE IN DIFFERENT WAYS RIGHT
IN OUR POLICE.
BUT COUNTY AND AND JUST
THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE COUNTY.
SO LAST YEAR WE HAD THREE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY SIX
HOMELESS FAMILIES IN SEPTEMBER
WE HAVE SIX HUNDRED AND THIRTY
SIX THE SEPTEMBER VILLAINOUS
HOUSING FOLKS ALONG THERE.
HOW ALWAYS ARE WARMING SHELTERS
ARE REALLY REALLY REALLY
LIMITED.
I THINK BONNIE, YOU'RE ACTUALLY
ON THIS TASK FORCE RIGHT?
ARE YOU ON THIS TASK FORCE?
NO MORE OK BUT WE'RE LOOKING
FOR SHELTERS FOR LARGE SPACES
FOR FAMILIES.
WE'VE GOT ENOUGH GOING THROUGH
JIANYU BUT COME JANUARY WE'RE
LOOKING FOR LARGER SPACES FOR
FAMILIES ALSO LOOKING FOR
VOLUNTEERS FOR OVERNIGHT'S.
A LOT OF THIS IS OUR RELIGIOUS
AND FAITH COMMUNITY STEPPING UP
TO PROVIDE THEIR SPACES FOR
DAYTIME AND NIGHT SHELTER.
BUT EVEN THERE THEY'RE REALLY
PRESSED FOR CAPACITY.
I REALLY ENCOURAGE YOU ALL IF
YOU'RE INTERESTED TO REACH OUT
TO WATCH THE HOUSING ALLIANCE
THEY HAVE UPDATES ON I THINK
FOR BAPTISTE WAS LOOKING FOR
VOLUNTEERS FOR OVERNIGHT
SHELTERING BUT ALSO IF YOU SEE
A COUNTY COMMISSIONER OUT AND
ABOUT TOWN, PLEASE THANK THEM
BECAUSE THEY DID COME IN AND
PROVIDE WHO MILLION IN FUNDING
TO HELP WITH THIS EFFORT
AND
ALSO IT'S BUT IT'S STILL NOT
ENOUGH.
IT'S IT'S IT'S NOT ENOUGH.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH FAMILY
SHELTERS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTY
SO I HATE TO THINK THAT I HEAR
FROM FAMILIES WHO ARE GOING
FOLKS WHO ARE WORKING WITH
FAMILIES GOING THROUGH THIS AND
HEARING HOW IT'S REALLY
TRAUMATIZING DEVASTATING WHEN
EVICTIONS ARE ENFORCED AND WHEN
PEOPLE ARE DESPERATE.
I JUST WORRY THAT THEY MIGHT BE
MORE INVOLVED IN THE JUSTICE
SYSTEM BECAUSE THEY'RE
HOMELESS.
SO IT'S IT'S SOMETHING THAT'S
OF CONCERN.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANYTHING COUNCILPERSON HARRISON
OH NO.
THAT WAS I DID ALSO ATTEND THE
STATE OF HOMELESSNESS AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING EVENT.
>> IT WAS REALLY EYE OPENING.
OK, THANK YOU.
OH THE CRISIS RESPONSE.
I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT.
FOLKS WERE WONDERING IF WE'RE
STILL DOING THAT.
WE ARE STILL DOING IT IF THERE
IS AN RFP AND WE HAD ASKED I'D
ASKED OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
FOR AN UPDATE BEFORE OUR
MEETING TONIGHT.
THERE REALLY ISN'T AN UPDATE
BESIDES, I THINK LEGAL'S TAKING
ANOTHER LOOK AT THE RFP
GROUP
THAT'S FUNCTIONING NOW WORKING
ON THE IS STILL LEGAL IS
VETTING THE RFP.
THEY'RE JUST REALLY THEY WANT
WE WANT IT TO BE SUCCESSFUL SO
YEAH YEAH.
THEY'RE JUST STILL THERE AND
STILL VETTING THE AH THE
PROPOSAL WE GET.
OK YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL HOPEFULLY WE'LL HEAR
SOMETHING SOON.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IS THERE ANY OTHER BUSINESS
THAT ANY OF THE COMMISSIONERS
WISH TO BRING?
WHAT IS IT TO FORGET NOW AND
WHAT COMMUNICATION.
WELL WELL OK WE DON'T HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS SO IS THERE
ANYTHING ELSE THAT ANY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS WANT TO AND IF
NOT I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE.
I THINK THIS WAS A REALLY GOOD
MEETING.
I APPRECIATE ALL THE INPUT.
I SO MUCH APPRECIATE YOUR
PATIENCE AND I AGAIN ONCE AGAIN
APOLOGIZE HEARTILY FOR MY
TARDINESS TODAY.
COULDN'T BE HELD.
ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE'S NOTHING I DO HAVE IF
ANYBODY WANTS TO TAKE A LOOK AT
THIS CHICAGO PROHIBITION ON
ASSOCIATIONS WITH CRIMINAL
ORGANIZATIONS, I'VE GOT A
COUPLE OF COPIES OF THIS TO
HAND OUT.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
YOU CAN PRESENT SOMETHING.
>> IT'S YOU KNOW WHAT I'M GOING
TO DO LET LET ME HAND IT TO
MISS COME IN COPIES WHICH WOULD
YOU RATHER DO THAT THEN OR GET
IT THROUGH EMAIL AND MAKE A
COPY IF YOU LIKE A HARD COPY
JUST STAY BACK AND MAKE SOME
MORE COPIES THERE I HAVE I HAVE
THREE SO THERE'S THREE AND I
KNOW I KNOW I KNOW I'LL MAKE
ONE FOR YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE IN THIS
THAT YOU SEVERAL.
OK GOOD THANK YOU FOR TAKING A
LOOK AT THAT AND JUST FOOD FOR
THOUGHT.
YOU KNOW WE NEED TO WE NEED TO
THINK ABOUT IT SO IF THERE'S
NOTHING FURTHER IF THERE'S
NOTHING FURTHER CAN I HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN MOTION TO
ADJOURN
THERE OK ANY ANY
OPPOSED ALL IN FAVOR I THE
MEETING IS ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH COUNSEL